NEWSHOUR PRODUCTIONS, LLC >>
Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN. GWEN
IFILL AND JUDY WOODRUFF
GWEN IFILL AND JUDY
WOODRUFF ARE AWAY.
ARE AWAY. ON THE
NEWSHOUR TONIGHT,
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT,
FRANCE AND RUSSIA WILL
COORDINATE THEIR OFFENSIVES
COORDINATE THEIR
OFFENSIVES AGAINST ISIS.
AGAINST ISIS. ALSO
AHEAD, A YEAR AFTER
ALSO AHEAD, A YEAR AFTER
THOUSANDS WERE MASSACRED IN
SINJAR, IRAQ, THE YAZIDIS ARE
SINJAR, IRAQ, THE YAZIDIS
ARE RETURNING HOME.
RETURNING HOME. PLUS,
REVISITING PLYMOUTH: WERE
PLUS, REVISITING PLYMOUTH: WERE
THE PILGRIMS ECONOMIC MIGRANTS?
>> IT WAS CAPITALISM FROM THE
>> IT WAS CAPITALISM
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING.
VERY BEGINNING. THE INTENT
WAS TO PROSPER HERE
THE INTENT WAS TO PROSPER HERE
IN ANY WAY THAT THEY COULD
WHETHER IT WAS THE FUR TRADE,
TIMBER TRADE, OR FISHING.
TIMBER TRADE, OR FISHING. >>
Sreenivasan: ALL THAT AND
>> Sreenivasan: ALL THAT AND
MORE ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: FRENCH PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE AND RUSSIA'S
VLADIMIR PUTIN AGREED IN MOSCOW
TODAY TO SHARE INTELLIGENCE IN
THEIR FIGHT AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE, AND PUTIN SAID HE IS
READY TO BEGIN COORDINATING
AIRSTRIKES WITH THE U.S.-LED
AIRSTRIKES WITH THE
U.S.-LED COALITION.
COALITION. FOR THE
THIRD TIME IN AS MANY
FOR THE THIRD TIME IN AS MANY
DAYS, HOLLANDE MET A COUNTERPART
TO PRESS THE GLOBAL EFFORT
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE >> (
translated): TERRORISM
IS
>> (translated):
TERRORISM IS OUR ENEMY, WE KNOW
IT, IT HAS A
OUR ENEMY, WE KNOW IT, IT HAS
A NAME, IT IS DAESH, ISLAMIC
NAME, IT IS DAESH,
ISLAMIC STATE.
STATE. WE MUST CREATE THIS LARGE
WE MUST CREATE THIS LARGE
COALITION, WHICH I WAS TALKING
>> Sreenivasan: THIS EVENING IN
MOSCOW, HOLLANDE AND PUTIN MET
FOR MORE THAN TWO HOURS; THEIR
NATIONS: THE MOST-RECENT VICTIMS
OF THE GROUP'S INTERNATIONAL
TERROR CAMPAIGN.
TERROR CAMPAIGN. PUTIN
SAID HE WAS NOW WILLING TO
PUTIN SAID HE WAS NOW WILLING
TO COOPERATE WITH THE U.S.-LED
COOPERATE WITH THE U.S.-LED
COALITION, WHICH HAS BEEN
BOMBING THE ISLAMIC STATE FOR 16
BOMBING THE ISLAMIC
STATE FOR 16 MONTHS.
MONTHS. > WE THINK
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
> WE THINK IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
BETTER TO FORM A WIDER COALITION
BETTER TO FORM A WIDER
COALITION TO START WITH.
GRFS
>> ( translated ): IT IS NOT
POSSIBLE TO FIGHT SUCCESSFULLY
WITHOUT A GROUND OPERATION AND
THERE IS NO OTHER FORCE FOR A
GROUND OPERATION THAN
THE SYRIAN ARMY.
ARMY. >> Sreenivasan:
HOLLANDE SAID
>> Sreenivasan: HOLLANDE SAID
THE FRENCH WOULD NOT BEGINNING
SHARING INTELLIGENCE WITH THE
RUSSIANS FOR THE AIR CAMPAIG
>> Sreenivasan: HOLLANDE SAID
THAT THE FRENCH WOULD NOW BEGIN
SHARING INTELLIGENCE WITH THE
RUSSIANS FOR THE AIR CAMPAIGN.
BUT HE RE-ITERATED HIS POSITION,
SHARED BY THE U.S., ON A SERIOUS
ISSUE OF DIVISION WITH THE
RUSSIANS: THAT IS THE FATE OF
RUSSIANS: THAT IS THE
FATE OF BASHAR AL-ASSAD.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD. >> (
translated ): IN FRANCE'S
>> ( translated ): IN FRANCE'S
VIEW, IT IS CLEAR THAT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD DOES NOT HAVE A PLACE
IN THE FUTURE OF SYRIA.
IN THE FUTURE OF
SYRIA. >> Sreenivasan:
>> Sreenivasan: >>
Sreenivasan: FOR HIS PART,
>> Sreenivasan: FOR HIS PART,
PUTIN SAID IT WAS UP TO SYRIANS
TO DETERMINE ASSAD'S FATE.
HANGING OVER THE MEETING,
TURKEY'S DOWNING OF A RUSSIAN
WARPLANE ON TUESDAY.
WARPLANE ON TUESDAY. THE
INCIDENT OCCURRED IN THE
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED IN THE
SKIES OVER THE SOUTHERNMOST
BORDER OF TURKEY ADJACENT TO
BORDER OF TURKEY
ADJACENT TO SYRIA.
SYRIA. ONE PILOT WAS
KILLED, AND THE
ONE PILOT WAS KILLED,
AND THE SECOND RESCUED.
SECOND RESCUED. RUSSIA
MAINTAINS THE PLANE WAS
RUSSIA MAINTAINS THE PLANE WAS
WITHIN SYRIAN AIRSPACE WHEN IT
WAS STRUCK BY TURKISH JETS.
AND YESTERDAY, THE SURVIVING
CREWMAN SAID AS MUCH FROM A BASE
CREWMAN SAID AS MUCH
FROM A BASE IN SYRIA.
IN SYRIA. >> (translated
): NO, THIS IS
>> (translated): NO,
THIS IS IMPOSSIBLE, NOT EVEN FOR
A
IMPOSSIBLE, NOT
EVEN FOR A SECOND.
SECOND. MOREOVER, WE
WERE FLYING AT AN
MOREOVER, WE WERE FLYING AT
AN ALTITUDE OF 6,000 METERS.
ALTITUDE OF 6,000 METERS.
THE WEATHER WAS CLEAR.
THE WEATHER WAS CLEAR. AS WE
SAY, "MILLION TO MILLION".
AS WE SAY, "MILLION TO MILLION".
BEFORE THE BLAST OF THE ROCKET,
OUR FLIGHT WAS TOTALLY UNDER MY
OUR FLIGHT WAS TOTALLY
UNDER MY CONTROL.
CONTROL. THERE WAS
NOT EVEN A THREAT OF
THERE WAS NOT EVEN A THREAT
OF ENTERING TURKISH AIRSPACE.
ENTERING TURKISH AIRSPACE. >>
Sreenivasan: BUT TURKEY HAS
>> Sreenivasan: BUT TURKEY HAS
FLATLY REJECTED THOSE CLAIMS,
AND SAID THE RUSSIAN JET
TRAVELED MORE THAN A MILE INTO
ITS TERRITORY AND IGNORED
MULTIPLE WARNINGS.
MULTIPLE WARNINGS. YESTERDAY,
THE TURKISH MILITARY
YESTERDAY, THE TURKISH MILITARY
RELEASED AUDIO RECORDINGS OF
WHAT IT SAID WERE TURKISH
OFFICIALS REPEATEDLY INSTRUCTING
THE RUSSIAN JET TO LEAVE.
THE RUSSIAN JET TO LEAVE. >>
THIS IS TURKISH AIR FORCE
>> Sreenivasan: THE FALLOUT FROM
THE DOWNING HAS BEEN SWIFT.
TODAY, RUSSIA'S STATE-OF-THE-ART
AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS ARRIVED IN
SYRIA, WITH A RANGE THAT REACHES
SYRIA, WITH A RANGE THAT
REACHES DEEP INTO TURKEY.
DEEP INTO TURKEY. AND
THE COUNTRY'S DEFENSE
AND THE COUNTRY'S DEFENSE
MINISTER SAID ALL MILITARY
CHANNELS WITH THE TURKS HAVE
CHANNELS WITH THE TURKS
HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED.
BEEN SUSPENDED. BACK IN
RUSSIA, PRIME MINISTER
BACK IN RUSSIA, PRIME MINISTER
DMITRY MEDVEDEV ORDERED
OFFICIALS TO BEGIN DRAFTING
MEASURES TO DEEPEN THAT SPLIT.
>> (translated): THESE
DOCUMENTS WILL DEAL WITH THE
INTRODUCTION OF BANS AND
RESTRICTIONS, WITH RESPECT TO
RESTRICTIONS, WITH RESPECT
TO THE ACTIVITIES OF TURKISH
THE ACTIVITIES OF TURKISH
ECONOMIC STRUCTURES ON THE
RUSSIAN TERRITORY, RESTRICTION
AND BANS ON SHIPMENTS OF GOODS
INCLUDING FOOD, ON WORKS AND
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE TURKISH
COMPANIES, AS WELL AS OTHER
RESTRICTIVE MEASURES.
RESTRICTIVE MEASURES. >>
Sreenivasan: BUT IN TURKEY,
>> Sreenivasan: BUT IN TURKEY,
PRESIDENT RECEP TAYIP ERDOGAN
SAID ANY TALK OF SEVERING
DIPLOMATIC AND ECONOMIC TIES
DIPLOMATIC AND ECONOMIC
TIES GOES TOO FAR.
GOES TOO FAR. >> (
translated): AT THIS
>> (translated): AT
THIS ARE SUCH APPROACHES FITTING
FOR
ARE SUCH APPROACHES FITTING FOR
POLITICIANS TO ADOPT SUCH A
POLITICIANS TO ADOPT
SUCH A STANCE?
STANCE? FIRST OF
ALL, POLITICIANS AND
FIRST OF ALL, POLITICIANS AND
MILITARY DELEGATIONS NEED TO SIT
DOWN AND TALK ABOUT THIS ISSUE.
AND AFTERWARDS, THE MISTAKES
SHOULD BE MUTUALLY RECOVERED.
IF WE MAKE EMOTIONAL STATEMENTS
RATHER THAN DOING THIS, IT WOULD
RATHER THAN DOING THIS,
IT WOULD BE UNFITTING.
BE UNFITTING. >>
Sreenivasan: AND ERDOGAN
>> Sreenivasan: AND ERDOGAN
AGAIN CONDEMNED RUSSIAN
AIRSTRIKES ALONG THE TURKISH-
SYRIAN BORDER, WHICH HE SAYS ARE
SYRIAN BORDER, WHICH HE SAYS
ARE TARGETING ETHNIC TURKMEN
TARGETING ETHNIC TURKMEN
FIGHTING AGAINST SYRIAN
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL ASSAD.
DESPITE THAT WARNING, THERE
APPEARED TO BE MORE STRIKES
TODAY ALONG THAT FRONTIER.
AMATEUR VIDEO SHOWED DOZENS OF
PEOPLE ATTEMPTING TO PUT OUT A
PEOPLE ATTEMPTING TO PUT OUT
A BLAZE CAUSE BY AN ALLEGED
BLAZE CAUSE BY AN ALLEGED
RUSSIAN AIRSTRIKE.
RUSSIAN AIRSTRIKE. REBEL
GROUPS ON THE GROUND SAID
REBEL GROUPS ON THE GROUND SAID
THE TARGET WAS A BORDER CROSSING
AND SEVERAL AID TRUCKS WERE HIT.
RUSSIA SAID IT IS TARGETING
TERRORISTS IN THE REGION.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS STORY
RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY. IN
BRITAIN TODAY, PRIME MINISTER
IN BRITAIN TODAY, PRIME MINISTER
DAVID CAMERON TRIED TO PERSUADE
PARLIAMENT TO BACK AIR-STRIKES
ON THE ISLAMIC STATE IN SYRIA.
THE ROYAL AIR FORCE IS PART OF
ISIS TARGETS IN IRAQ, BUT NOT
ISIS TARGETS IN IRAQ,
BUT NOT SYRIA.
SYRIA. FOR MORE THAN
TWO HOURS TODAY,
FOR MORE THAN TWO HOURS TODAY,
CAMERON FIELDED QUESTIONS IN THE
HOUSE OF COMMONS, WHERE THE MAIN
HOUSE OF COMMONS, WHERE THE
MAIN OPPOSITION LABOR PARTY IS
OPPOSITION LABOR PARTY
IS DIVIDED ON ACTION.
DIVIDED ON ACTION. >> WE
SHOULDN'T BE CONTENT WITH
>> WE SHOULDN'T BE CONTENT WITH
OUT-SOURCING OUR SECURITY TO OUR
OUT-SOURCING OUR
SECURITY TO OUR ALLIES.
ALLIES. IF WE BELIEVE
THAT ACTION CAN
IF WE BELIEVE THAT ACTION CAN
HELP PROTECT US, THEN WITH OUR
ALLIES WE SHOULD BE PART OF THAT
ACTION NOT STANDING ASIDE FROM
ACTION NOT STANDING
ASIDE FROM IT.
IT. AND FROM THIS
MORAL POINT COMES
AND FROM THIS MORAL POINT COMES
A FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION: IF WE
WON'T ACT NOW, WHEN OUR FRIEND
AND ALLY FRANCE HAS BEEN STRUCK
IN THIS WAY, THEN OUR ALLIES IN
THE WORLD CAN BE FORGIVEN FOR
ASKING "IF NOT NOW, WHEN?."
ASKING "IF NOT NOW, WHEN?." >>
Sreenivasan: CAMERON DID SAY
>> Sreenivasan: CAMERON DID SAY
HE WOULD ONLY PUT THE ISSUE TO A
HE WOULD ONLY PUT THE ISSUE TO
A VOTE IF HE THERE WAS A CLEAR
VOTE IF HE THERE WAS A CLEAR
MAJORITY, NOT WANTING TO HAND
ISIS A "PUBLICITY COUP."
ISIS A "PUBLICITY COUP." BELGIUM
LOWERED ITS ALERT LEVEL
BELGIUM LOWERED ITS ALERT LEVEL
BY ONE NOTCH IN BRUSSELS TODAY
AFTER DETERMINING THERE'S NO
"IMMINENT" THREAT OF AN ATTACK.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE WORD WHAT
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE WORD
WHAT PROMPTED THAT MOVE, BUT
PROMPTED THAT MOVE, BUT
AUTHORITIES VOWED TO REMAIN
AUTHORITIES VOWED
TO REMAIN VIGILANT.
VIGILANT. MEANWHILE,
BELGIAN OFFICIALS
MEANWHILE, BELGIAN OFFICIALS
CONFIRMED AN ANTHRAX SCARE AT
THE CAPITAL CITY'S MAIN MOSQUE
TURNED OUT TO BE A HOAX.
INVESTIGATORS SAID A SUSPICIOUS
WHITE POWDER IN A PARCEL WAS
WHITE POWDER IN A PARCEL
WAS ACTUALLY FLOUR.
ACTUALLY FLOUR. SECURITY
WAS ON THE MINDS OF
SECURITY WAS ON THE MINDS OF
MANY THIS THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY
ACROSS THE U.S. IN THE WAKE OF
ACROSS THE U.S. IN THE
WAKE OF THE PARIS ATTACKS.
THE PARIS ATTACKS. 2,500
POLICE OFFICERS LINED THE
2,500 POLICE OFFICERS LINED THE
MACY'S ANNUAL THANKSGIVING
PARADE ROUTE, THAT WENDS ITS WAY
PARADE ROUTE, THAT WENDS ITS
WAY THROUGH THE STREETS OF
THROUGH THE STREETS
OF MANHATTAN.
MANHATTAN. BUT CITY
OFFICIALS SAID IT WAS A
BUT CITY OFFICIALS SAID IT WAS A
PRECAUTION, SINCE THERE WAS NO
PRECAUTION, SINCE THERE
WAS NO CREDIBLE THREAT.
CREDIBLE THREAT. IN
AFGHANISTAN, U.S. TROOPS
IN AFGHANISTAN, U.S. TROOPS
OBSERVED THE HOLIDAY AT NATO
HEADQUARTERS IN KABUL WITH
TURKEY AND ALL THE TRIMMINGS,
WHILE PAUSING TO COUNT THEIR
WHILE PAUSING TO COUNT
THEIR BLESSINGS.
BLESSINGS. >> I'M JUST
HAPPY TO BE HERE.
>> I'M JUST HAPPY TO BE HERE.
I'M THANKFUL FOR, YOU KNOW,
BEING ALIVE AND EVERYTHING LIKE
THAT, AND HAVING THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SERVE THE AFGHAN PEOPLE AS
TO SERVE THE AFGHAN PEOPLE
AS MUCH AS WE CAN HERE.
MUCH AS WE CAN HERE.
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HERE AND
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
HERE AND HOME?
HOME? OF COURSE I
DON'T HAVE MY FAMILY
OF COURSE I DON'T HAVE MY FAMILY
HERE WITH ME, BUT I'M STILL
HAPPY TO BE AROUND MY MILITARY
FAMILY AND THE OTHER COALITION
FORCES THAT WE HAVE, YOU KNOW,
FORCES THAT WE HAVE, YOU
KNOW, CREATED BONDS WITH AND
CREATED BONDS WITH AND
EVERYTHING LIKE THAT.
EVERYTHING LIKE THAT. >>
Sreenivasan: PRESIDENT OBAMA
>> Sreenivasan: PRESIDENT OBAMA
USED HIS THANKSGIVING MESSAGE TO
APPEAL FOR GREATER ACCEPTANCE OF
REFUGEES FLEEING THE CONFLICT IN
REFUGEES FLEEING THE
CONFLICT IN SYRIA.
IN HIS WEEKLY RADIO ADDRESS,
HE REMINDED AMERICANS THAT THE
REMINDED AMERICANS THAT THE
PILGRIMS FLED PERSECUTION AND
VIOLENCE WHEN THEY CAME TO
AMERICA NEARLY FOUR CENTURIES
AMERICA NEARLY FOUR
CENTURIES AGO.
AGO. THE PRESIDENT
HAS VOWED TO TAKE
THE PRESIDENT HAS VOWED TO TAKE
IN AN ADDITIONAL 10,000 SYRIAN
REFUGEES OVER THE NEXT YEAR.
NORWAY BEGAN IMPOSING STRICTER
BORDER CONTROLS TODAY IN AN
EFFORT TO LIMIT THE FLOW OF
EFFORT TO LIMIT THE
FLOW OF MIGRANTS.
MIGRANTS. POLICE AND
BORDER SECURITY
POLICE AND BORDER SECURITY
OFFICIALS ARE NOW CHECKING THE
IDENTIFICATION PAPERS OF PEOPLE
ARRIVING AND LEAVING THE NORDIC
ARRIVING AND LEAVING
THE NORDIC COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. THE MEASURES
WILL REMAIN IN
THE MEASURES WILL REMAIN
IN PLACE FOR TEN DAYS.
PLACE FOR TEN DAYS. NORWAY
ESTIMATES SOME 33,000
NORWAY ESTIMATES SOME 33,000
ASYLUM SEEKERS WILL ENTER THEIR
ASYLUM SEEKERS WILL ENTER
THEIR COUNTRY THIS YEAR.
COUNTRY THIS YEAR. THAT'S
THREE TIMES LAST YEAR'S
THAT'S THREE TIMES
LAST YEAR'S TOTAL.
TOTAL. BOKO HARAM
MILITANTS CROSSED THE
BOKO HARAM MILITANTS CROSSED THE
BORDER INTO NIGER TODAY AND
ATTACKED A VILLAGE, KILLING AT
ATTACKED A VILLAGE, KILLING
AT LEAST 18 PEOPLE.
LEAST 18 PEOPLE. SECURITY
SOURCES SAID THEY
SECURITY SOURCES SAID THEY
ARRIVED ON FOOT IN A SMALL
VILLAGE IN THE SOUTHERN BORDER
AREA OF DIFFA, OPENING FIRE ON
AREA OF DIFFA, OPENING
FIRE ON RESIDENTS.
RESIDENTS. THE BORDER
AREA IS RIFE WITH
THE BORDER AREA IS RIFE WITH
STRIKES BECAUSE BOKO HARAM'S
STRONGHOLD IN NORTHEAST NIGERIA
IS JUST A FEW MILES AWAY.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, FEDERAL
AUTHORITIES ARE STILL
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES ARE STILL
INVESTIGATING THE FATAL SHOOTING
OF A BLACK TEENAGER BY A WHITE
CHICAGO POLICE OFFICER LAST
YEAR, AND COULD BRING ADDITIONAL
YEAR, AND COULD BRING
ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
CHARGES. THE OFFICER
WAS CHARGED WITH
THE OFFICER WAS CHARGED WITH
FIRST-DEGREE MURDER ON TUESDAY
BY COOK COUNTY PROSECUTORS.
OVERNIGHT THERE WERE MORE,
MOSTLY PEACEFUL PROTESTS WITH
MOSTLY PEACEFUL PROTESTS
WITH ONLY FOUR ARRESTS.
ONLY FOUR ARRESTS.
ORGANIZERS HOPE FOR A LARGE
PROTEST TOMORROW, "BLACK
FRIDAY", ALONG MICHIGAN AVENUE,
THE CITY'S FAMOUS SHOPPING
THE CITY'S FAMOUS
SHOPPING DISTRICT.
DISTRICT. STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
THE FRENCH SEEK A GRAND
COALITION AGAINST ISIS; THE
JOURNEY HOME, TO A CITY ONCE
HELD BY THE ISLAMIC STATE;
HOW ECONOMICS SHAPED THE
PILGRIMS AND THE "NEW WORLD;"
PILGRIMS AND THE "NEW
WORLD;" AND MUCH MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: WE RETURN NOW TO
RUSSIA, WHERE THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL'S MOSCOW BUREAU CHIEF,
NATHAN HODGE, WAS AT THE PRESS
CONFERENCE WITH PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN AND RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT FRANCOIS HOLLANDE.
I TALKED TO HIM EARLIER THIS
I TALKED TO HIM
EARLIER THIS EVENING.
EVENING. SO, NATHAN,
WHAT SORT OF
SO, NATHAN, WHAT SORT OF
COOPERATION DID THESE TWO
LEADERS OUTLINE IN THEIR PRESS
LEADERS OUTLINE IN THEIR
PRESS CONFERENCE TODAY?
CONFERENCE TODAY? FOR A
LOT OF PEOPLE, THEY MIGHT
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE, THEY MIGHT
HAVE ASSUMED THAT FRANCE AND
RUSSIA WERE ALREADY COOPERATING
FOR THE PAST WEEK.
FOR THE PAST WEEK. >>
Reporter: WELL, THAT'S
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT'S
REALLY BEEN THE QUESTION ON
EVERYONE'S MIND HERE BECAUSE
IT'S BOTH MR. PUTIN AND
IT'S BOTH MR. PUTIN AND MR.
HOLLANDE HAVE BOTH SAID WHAT
MR. HOLLANDE HAVE BOTH SAID WHAT
THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE SOME KIND
OF INTERNATIONAL COALITION HERE
BUT NONE OF THE OUTLINES HAVE
BUT NONE OF THE OUTLINES
HAVE BEEN CLEAR.
BEEN CLEAR. PRESIDENT
PUTIN SAID THAT HE
PRESIDENT PUTIN SAID
THAT HE COULD SEE A
COULD SEE A HAD AGREED
UPON WHERE THERE
HAD AGREED UPON WHERE THERE
WOULD BE CERTAIN TERRITORIES
THAT WOULD BE AGREED UPON, WHERE
YOU CAN STRIKE, WHERE YOU CAN'T
YOU CAN STRIKE, WHERE
YOU CAN'T STRIKE.
STRIKE. AND THERE
ALSO SEEMS TO BE AN
AND THERE ALSO SEEMS TO BE AN
EXWRAEMENT HERE TO GO AFTER THE
OIL INDUSTRY, OR THE OIL TRADE
THAT IS ONE OF THE SOURCES OF
THAT IS ONE OF THE SOURCES
OF INCOME FOR ISLAMIC STATE.
INCOME FOR ISLAMIC STATE. SO
THOSE SEEM TO BE TWO AREAS OF
SO THOSE SEEM TO BE TWO
AREAS OF COOPERATION HERE.
COOPERATION HERE. BUT
PRESIDENT PUTIN ALSO MADE
BUT PRESIDENT PUTIN ALSO MADE
CLEAR HIS ANGER OVER THE DOWNING
OF THE RUSSIAN AIRCRAFT BY A
TURKISH F-16 ON TUESDAY SAYING
THE RUSSIANS HAD ACTUALLY BEEN
PASSING ON INFORMATION ABOUT THE
LOCATION OF THEIR AIRCRAFT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE TURKS HAD
RELEASED SOME AUDIO JUST IN THE
RELEASED SOME AUDIO JUST IN
THE PAST 24 HOURS SHOWING THE
PAST 24 HOURS SHOWING THE
TURKISH MILITARY REPEATEDLY
TELLING THE RUSSIAN PILOT TO
SAY, "HEY, YOU'RE COMING INTO
SAY, "HEY, YOU'RE COMING
INTO OUR AIRSTRIKE.
OUR AIRSTRIKE. TURN
AWAY, TURN AWAY.
TURN AWAY, TURN AWAY. DIFFICULT
HE RESPOND TO THAT AT
DIFFICULT HE RESPOND
TO THAT AT ALL TODAY?
ALL TODAY? >> WELL,
PRESIDENT PUTIN DIDN'T
>> WELL, PRESIDENT PUTIN DIDN'T
DIRECTLY TO THAT BUT HE SAID ANY
OF THE TURKISH EXPLANATIONS WERE
OF THE TURKISH EXPLANATIONS
WERE "EXCUSES."
"EXCUSES." YESTERDAY
WE ALSO GOT SOME
YESTERDAY WE ALSO GOT SOME
INTERESTING FOOTAGE, AN
INTERVIEW THAT WAS AIRED WITH
THE AVIATOR, THE RUSSIAN AVIATOR
WHO MANAGED TO EJECT AND SURVIVE
THE INCIDENT, SURVIVE THE
SHOOTDOWN, AND HE HAD SAID THAT
THE CREW OF THE AIRCRAFT HAD
RECEIVED NO WE'VE SEEN TODAY,
ESPECIALLY JUST ADVANCE OF
MR. HOLLANDE'S VISIT, IS A
WHIPPING UP THE SOME PRETTY
STRONGLY ANTI-TURKISH SENTIMENT
AND THREATS BY RUSSIAN OFFICIALS
TO RETALIATE, NOT WITH MILITARY
TO RETALIATE, NOT WITH
MILITARY FORCE, BUT TO RESPOND
FORCE, BUT TO RESPOND
ECONOMICALLY.
ECONOMICALLY. TURKEY
HAS A SERIOUS TOURIST
TURKEY HAS A SERIOUS TOURIST
TRADE WITH RUSSIA, STRONG TIES
TRADE WITH RUSSIA, STRONG
TIES WITH GAS EXPORTS.
WITH GAS EXPORTS. AND
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS HAVE MADE
AND RUSSIAN OFFICIALS HAVE MADE
CLEAR THAT THEY'RE GOING TO BE
LOOKING FOR WAYS TO RESPOND AND
RESPOND ECONOMICALLY TO WHAT'S
RESPOND ECONOMICALLY
TO WHAT'S HAPPENED.
HAPPENED. >> Sreenivasan:
DO THE LEADERS
>> Sreenivasan: DO THE LEADERS
OF RUSSIA HAVE PUBLIC SUPPORT
OF RUSSIA HAVE PUBLIC
SUPPORT FOR THESE MOVES?
FOR THESE MOVES? >>
Reporter: WELL, THAT'S AN
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT'S AN
INTERESTING QUESTION BECAUSE
PUTIN'S RATINGS, WHICH ARE
STEADILY QUITE HIGH, HAVE
REACHED RECORD HIGHS, IN FACT,
SINCE THE INTERVENTION AT THE
VERY END OF SEPTEMBER IN SYRIA.
THERE'S BEEN A PROMISE IN MANY
WAISS OF A CLEAN AND RATHER
SURGICAL WAR FROM THE AIR.
MR. PUTIN HAS MADE IT PRETTY
CLEAR THAT HE DOESN'T EXPECT TO
SEE ANY FORCES ON THE GROUND,
ANY RUSSIAN BOOTS ON THE GROUND.
UNTIL THE DOWNING OF THIS
AIRCRAFT THERE HAD BEEN NO
COMBAT DEATHS BY RUSSIAN FORCES
UNTIL THE DOWNING OF THE
AIRCRAFT AND THE SUBSEQUENT
RESCUE MISSION, IN WHICH A
RUSSIAN MARINE WAS ALSO KILLED.
BUT THIS DOESN'T SEEM TO HAVE
DEPARTMENTED PUTIN'S POPULARITY
DEPARTMENTED PUTIN'S
POPULARITY IN AND WAY.
IN AND WAY. >>
Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS THE
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS THE
TURKS ARE ALMOST TRYING TO
RATCHET THINGS DOWN WHILE THE
RUSSIANS ARE TRYING RATCHET THEM
RUSSIANS ARE TRYING
RATCHET THEM UP.
UP. >> Reporter: THIS HAS BEEN A
>> Reporter: THIS HAS
BEEN A PATTERN AS WELL.
PATTERN AS WELL. PUTIN
IS NOTHING IF NOT A
PUTIN IS NOTHING IF NOT A
CONFIDENT ACTOR ON THE WORLD
STAGE AT THIS POINT, AND HE'S
ALSO PLAYING, AS WELL, TO A
ALSO PLAYING, AS WELL, TO
A DOMESTIC AUDIENCE HERE.
DOMESTIC AUDIENCE HERE.
THERE'S BEEN A FAIR AMOUNT OF
GENUINE ANGER AS WELL DIRECTED
GENUINE ANGER AS WELL
DIRECTED AT TURKEY.
AT TURKEY. WE'VE SEEN
ROCKS AND EGGS PELTED
WE'VE SEEN ROCKS AND EGGS PELTED
AT THE TURKISH EMBASSY HERE.
AND THERE IS VERY INTERESTING
INCIDENT TODAY AS WELL WHERE A
NUMBER OF TURKISH BUSINESSMEN
NUMBER OF TURKISH
BUSINESSMEN WERE DETAINED.
WERE DETAINED. AGAIN, I
THINK THIS IS JUST A
AGAIN, I THINK THIS IS JUST A
CASE WHERE WE'RE GOING TO BE
SEEING A FAIR AMOUNT OF OFFICIAL
ANTI-TURKISH SENTIMENT, BUT
DEFINITELY THERE'S BEEN AN
OUTRAGE OVER THE DEATH OF THE
OUTRAGE OVER THE DEATH
OF THE RUSSIAN AERATOR.
RUSSIAN AERATOR. AND A
FAIRLY BELLIGERENT AND I
AND A FAIRLY BELLIGERENT AND I
WOULD SAY A SOMEWHAT ANGRY TONE
THAT WE SAW TODAY IN THE PRESS
CONFERENCE FOLLOWING THE MEETING
WITH FRENCH PRESIDENT HOLLANDE.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE SEEMS TO
>> Sreenivasan: THERE SEEMS
TO BE ONE CRUCIAL GAP BETWEEN
BE ONE CRUCIAL GAP BETWEEN
FRANCE AND RUSSIA STILL, WHICH
IS THE AGREEMENT UPON WHETHER OR
NOT PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD OF
NOT PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD
OF SYRIA SHOULD STAY OR GO.
SYRIA SHOULD STAY OR GO. THAT
HAS NOT BEEN CLOSED, RIGHT?
THAT HAS NOT BEEN CLOSED,
RIGHT? >> Reporter: RIGHT.
>> Reporter: RIGHT. AND
THIS MEETING REALLY
AND THIS MEETING REALLY
UNDERSCORES HOW MUCH DISTANCE
REMAINS BETWEEN THE WEST AND
BETWEEN THE KREMLIN WHEN IT
COMES TO WHETHER OR NOT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD SHOULD STAY OR SHOULD
AL-ASSAD SHOULD
STAY OR SHOULD GO.
GO. PUTIN REITERATED TODAY WHAT
PUTIN REITERATED TODAY WHAT
WE'VE HEARD FROM HIM BEFORE,
WHICH IS THAT IT'S UP TO THE
SYRIAN PEOPLE TO DECIDE.
SYRIAN PEOPLE TO DECIDE. AND
HE'S ALSO MADE CLEAR THAT HE
AND HE'S ALSO MADE CLEAR THAT HE
SEES THE ONLY LEGITIMATE FORCE
ON THE GROUND-- THAT IS, THE
ONLY ONE THAT'S CAPABLE OF
TAKING THE FIGHT TO ISLAMIC
STATE-- AS SYRIA'S-- SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT FORCES, THE SYRIAN
ARMY, AND THE FORCES ON SIDE
ARMY, AND THE FORCES ON
SIDE WITH BASHAR AL-ASSAD.
WITH BASHAR AL-ASSAD. SO
IT'S-- IT'S PRETTY CLEAR HERE
SO IT'S-- IT'S PRETTY CLEAR HERE
THATHAT THERE'S NOT REALLY BEEN
SORT OF A MAJOR CLOSING OF THE
GAP BETWEEN FRANCE, BETWEEN THE
WEST, AND BETWEEN THE KREMLIN ON
WEST, AND BETWEEN THE
KREMLIN ON THIS.
THIS. AND IT'S NOT
CLEAR WHETHER THIS
AND IT'S NOT CLEAR WHETHER THIS
MEETING WILL RESOLVE THAT OR
WILL PUSH THE BALL FORWARD IN
ANY WAY TOWARDS SOME KIND OF
ANY WAY TOWARDS SOME KIND
OF RESOLUTION IN SYRIA.
RESOLUTION IN SYRIA. >
Sr>eenivasan: NATHAN HODGE,
> Sr>eenivasan: NATHAN HODGE,
MOSCOW "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
BUREAU CHIEF, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
BUREAU CHIEF, THANKS SO
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE THAN A YEAR
AGO, THE DESPERATE PLIGHT OF
IRAQ'S YAZIDI RELIGIOUS MINORITY
STRANDED ON SINJAR MOUNTAIN
HELPED DRAW THE UNITED STATES
INTO THE WAR AGAINST ISIS IN
INTO THE WAR AGAINST
ISIS IN IRAQ.
IRAQ. THE MILITANTS
ARE BELIEVED TO
THE MILITANTS ARE BELIEVED
TO HAVE KILLED HUNDREDS OF
HAVE KILLED HUNDREDS OF
CIVILIANS FROM SINJAR AND
CIVILIANS FROM SINJAR
AND SURROUNDING AREAS.
SURROUNDING AREAS. ISIS
ALSO CAPTURED SEVERAL
ISIS ALSO CAPTURED SEVERAL
THOUSAND YAZIDI WOMEN, WHOM THEY
THOUSAND YAZIDI WOMEN, WHOM
THEY SYSTEMATICALLY ENSLAVED.
SYSTEMATICALLY ENSLAVED. EARLIER
THIS MONTH, AMERICAN AIR
EARLIER THIS MONTH, AMERICAN AIR
STRIKES AND KURDISH FORCES DROVE
ISIS OUT OF SINJAR CITY, CUTTING
OFF A MAIN ISIS SUPPLY ROUTE TO
SYRIA AND ALLOWING RESIDENTS TO
SYRIA AND ALLOWING
RESIDENTS TO GO BACK.
GO BACK. JANE ARRAF
REPORTS ON WHAT SOME
JANE ARRAF REPORTS ON WHAT
SOME OF THEM HAVE FOUND.
OF THEM HAVE FOUND. >>
Reporter: THERE'S NO RUNNING
>> Reporter: THERE'S NO RUNNING
WATER OR ELECTRICITY IN SINJAR.
EVEN MAKING TEA IS A CHALLENGE.
BUT BURGESS GHARBI AND TWO OF
HIS SONS HAVE COME BACK EVERY
DAY FOR THE PAST WEEK TO TRY TO
GET THEIR HOUSE IN SHAPE FOR THE
GET THEIR HOUSE IN SHAPE FOR
THE REST OF THE FAMILY.
REST OF THE FAMILY. THEY
WERE LUCKIER THAN A LOT OF
THEY WERE LUCKIER THAN
A LOT OF YAZIDIS.
YAZIDIS. NO ONE FROM
THEIR IMMEDIATE
NO ONE FROM THEIR IMMEDIATE
FAMILY WAS KILLED OR CAPTURED BY
FAMILY WAS KILLED OR
CAPTURED BY ISIS.
ISIS. ALTHOUGH HIS
FABRIC SHOP WAS
ALTHOUGH HIS FABRIC SHOP WAS
DESTROYED THERE WAS ONLY MINOR
DESTROYED THERE WAS ONLY
MINOR DAMAGE TO HIS HOME.
DAMAGE TO HIS HOME. BUT
IT'S STILL NOT SAFE ENOUGH
BUT IT'S STILL NOT SAFE
ENOUGH TO LIVE HERE.
TO LIVE HERE. >> (
translated): IF THE
FORCES
>> (translated): IF THE
FORCES ADVANCED A LITTLE FURTHER
WE
ADVANCED A LITTLE FURTHER WE
WOULD HAVE BEEN OUT OF MORTAR
RANGE, AND A LOT OF FAMILIES
WOULD HAVE COME BACK AS LONG AS
WE STAYED OUT OF MORTAR RANGE.
WE WERE BACK HERE TWO DAYS WHEN
A MORTAR LANDED OVER THERE.
>> Reporter: BURGESS SEARCHED
THE HOUSE FOR HIDDEN BOMBS AND
THEN HE AND THE BOYS STARTED
REPAIRING AND CLEANING.
REPAIRING AND CLEANING. IT'S
A MIXED NEIGHBORHOOD OF
IT'S A MIXED NEIGHBORHOOD OF
YAZIDIS AND MOSLEM KURDS.
BURGESS SAYS HE HAS CALLED HIS
MOSLEM NEIGHBORS AND HOPES
MOSLEM NEIGHBORS AND
HOPES THEY'LL COME BACK.
THEY'LL COME BACK. THE LAST
TIME BASIMA ISMAEL AND
THE LAST TIME BASIMA ISMAEL AND
HER FAMILY SAW THEIR HOUSE THEY
HER FAMILY SAW THEIR HOUSE
THEY WERE FLEEING ISIS.
WERE FLEEING ISIS. THEY'VE
COME BACK TO SINJAR FROM
THEY'VE COME BACK TO SINJAR FROM
IRAQ'S KURDISTAN REGION TO SEE
IF THERE'S ANYTHING LEFT TO COME
IF THERE'S ANYTHING
LEFT TO COME HOME TO.
HOME TO. THEY SPENT
FIVE YEARS BUILDING
THEY SPENT FIVE YEARS
BUILDING THE HOUSE.
THE HOUSE. THEY'D
ONLY LIVED IN IT FOR
THEY'D ONLY LIVED
IN IT FOR THREE.
THREE. EVERY ROOM HAS
BEEN DAMAGED AND
EVERY ROOM HAS BEEN
DAMAGED AND LOOTED.
LOOTED. THEY TOOK
THE TV, THE FRIDGE,
THEY TOOK THE TV, THE FRIDGE,
THE FREEZER AND THE CAR.
THE FREEZER AND THE CAR. BUT
THEY DID MUCH, MUCH WORSE.
BUT THEY DID MUCH, MUCH WORSE.
>> (translated): WE
YAZIDIS,
YAZIDIS, MOSLEMS ALL THE
DIFFERENT PEOPLE
MOSLEMS ALL THE DIFFERENT
PEOPLE OF SINJAR WERE THE SAME.
OF SINJAR WERE THE SAME.
WE WERE LIVING TOGETHER.
WE WERE LIVING TOGETHER. THEY
SET US AGAINST EACH OTHER
THEY SET US AGAINST EACH
OTHER AND THEY KILLED US.
AND THEY KILLED US.
WE KILLED EACH OTHER.
WE KILLED EACH OTHER. THEY
CREATED SECTARIANISM.
THEY CREATED SECTARIANISM.
>> Reporter: THE FAMILY IS
MOSLEM KURDISH IN A CITY OF
MOSLEM KURDISH IN A CITY
OF YAZIDIS AND KURDS.
YAZIDIS AND KURDS. IN
ONE ROOM, THEY FIND THE
IN ONE ROOM, THEY FIND
THE DUST-COVERED KORAN.
DUST-COVERED KORAN. IT'S
ONE OF THE FEW THINGS ISIS
IT'S ONE OF THE FEW
THINGS ISIS DIDN'T STEAL.
DIDN'T STEAL. RAYAN
RESCUES PHOTOGRAPHS.
RAYAN RESCUES PHOTOGRAPHS.
WITH THE TAKEOVER OF SINJAR,
THAT PART OF HIS LIFE IS NOW
THAT PART OF HIS
LIFE IS NOW OVER.
OVER. BASIMA RETRIEVES
SOME POTS AND
BASIMA RETRIEVES SOME POTS AND
PANS, SOME BLANKETS, A FAVORITE
PANS, SOME BLANKETS,
A FAVORITE TEA-SET.
TEA-SET. AS THEY
PUT WHAT THEY CAN
AS THEY PUT WHAT THEY CAN
SALVAGE IN THE TAXI, A ROADSIDE
BOMB EXPLODES ON A NEARBY
BOMB EXPLODES ON
A NEARBY STREET.
STREET. THEY GET
BACK IN THE TAXI TO
THEY GET BACK IN THE TAXI TO
HEAD FOR THE SAFER KURDISH
HEAD FOR THE SAFER
KURDISH REGION.
REGION. KURDISH
FORCES ARE BUSY STILL
KURDISH FORCES ARE BUSY STILL
FIGHTING ISIS ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE MOUNTAIN AND THE CITY
OF THE MOUNTAIN AND THE
CITY SEEMS LAWLESS.
SEEMS LAWLESS. CIVILIANS
WANDER AROUND WITH
CIVILIANS WANDER
AROUND WITH GUNS.
GUNS. POLITICIANS
AND UNION LEADERS
POLITICIANS AND UNION LEADERS
DRIVE AROUND POSING FOR PHOTOS.
APART FROM FIGHTERS THE CITY IS
APART FROM FIGHTERS THE
CITY IS ALMOST DESERTED.
ALMOST DESERTED. "WE'RE
ALL GOING TO AMERICA,"
"WE'RE ALL GOING TO AMERICA,"
THIS RESIDENT JOKES.BOMBS LEFT E
THIS RESIDENT JOKES.BOMBS
LEFT E A LOT MORE REMAINING.
A LOT MORE REMAINING. ALONG
WITH KURDISH GOVERNMENT
ALONG WITH KURDISH GOVERNMENT
PESHMERGA THERE ARE COMPETING
KURDISH FORCES AND YAZIDI
FIGHTERS STAKING THEIR CLAIM.
THE CITY FEELS AS IF IT'S
JUST WAITING FOR A SPARK TO
JUST WAITING FOR A
SPARK TO RE-IGNITE.
RE-IGNITE. >> (
translated): SINJAR HAS
>> (translated): SINJAR
HAS BEEN RE-CAPTURED, BUT THE
BEEN RE-CAPTURED, BUT THE
CHALLENGE NOW FOR KURDISH FORCES
CHALLENGE NOW FOR KURDISH
FORCES IS TO MAINTAIN CONTROL.
IS TO MAINTAIN CONTROL. ISIS
CONTROLS VILLAGES TO THE
ISIS CONTROLS VILLAGES TO THE
SOUTH OF HERE AND THERE'S
ALREADY LOOTING IN THE CITY.
SO THIS GUARD UNIT HAS BEEN
BROUGHT IN TO MAINTAIN SECURITY.
>> Reporter: ALONG THESE STREETS
ISIS HAS MARKED THE HOMES WITH
GRAFFITI IDENTIFYING THE OWNERS'
GRAFFITI IDENTIFYING
THE OWNERS' RELIGION.
RELIGION. SOME OF THOSE
MARKED "SHIA" WERE
SOME OF THOSE MARKED "SHIA" WERE
ALMOST COMPLETELY DESTROYED--
LOOTED AND THEN SET ON FIRE.
IN ANOTHER AREA- A MISSPELLED
"THE ISLAMIC STATE" REMAINS.
THIS ONE VOWED DEATH TO THE
THIS ONE VOWED DEATH TO
THE KURDISH PESHMERGA.
KURDISH PESHMERGA. WHILE
ISIS WAS DRIVEN OUT OF
WHILE ISIS WAS DRIVEN OUT OF
SINJAR, THEY ARE STILL A THREAT
JUST A FEW MILES FROM HERE.
AHMED GHAIB HUSSEIN, THE HEAD OF
AHMED GHAIB HUSSEIN, THE HEAD
OF A MOSTLY SHIA KURDISH
A MOSTLY SHIA KURDISH
NEIGHBORHOOD HERE, SAYS PEOPLE
WON'T COME BACK TO THE CITY
UNTIL SOME OF THE SURROUNDING
VILLAGES ARE RETAKEN.
VILLAGES ARE RETAKEN. >> (
translated): WHETHER
IT'S
>> (translated):
WHETHER IT'S AMERICA, IRAQ, OR
KURDISTAN, WE
AMERICA, IRAQ, OR KURDISTAN,
WE WANT THEM TO LIBERATE THOSE
WANT THEM TO LIBERATE THOSE
AREAS SO PEOPLE CAN RETURN TO
AREAS SO PEOPLE CAN
RETURN TO THEIR HOMES.
THEIR HOMES. IF THESE
AREAS ARE LIBERATED,
IF THESE AREAS ARE LIBERATED,
FAMILIES WILL RETURN.
FAMILIES WILL RETURN. >>
Reporter: OF THE 700 HOUSES
>> Reporter: OF THE 700 HOUSES
IN HIS NEIGHBORHOOD, ONLY ABOUT
100 HAVE COME BACK SO FAR-- MANY
JUST TO CHECK ON THEIR HOUSES.
IN BETWEEN EXPLOSIVES LAID BY
ISIS, AND THE U.S. AND BRITISH
AIR STRIKES, ENTIRE SECTIONS OF
AIR STRIKES, ENTIRE SECTIONS
OF THE CITY ARE DESTROYED.
THE CITY ARE DESTROYED. AND
AS KURDISH AND U.S. FORCES
AND AS KURDISH AND U.S. FORCES
RECOVER MORE TERRITORY FROM
ISIS, THERE IS MORE EVIDENCE OF
MASS KILLINGS BEING UNCOVERED.
THESE ARE HUMAN BONES--
SCATTERED BY DOGS AFTER BEING
BURIED IN A SLLOWHA GRAVE,
AND PLACED IN THIS PILE BY
AND PLACED IN THIS
PILE BY VILLAGERS.
VILLAGERS. NO ONE HAS
CORDONED OFF THE
NO ONE HAS CORDONED OFF THE
SITE, ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF WHAT
SITE, ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF
WHAT YAZIDIS CALL SHINGAL.
>> Reporter: VILLAGERS BELIEVE
AT LEAST 22 MEN ARE BURIED IN
AT LEAST 22 MEN ARE
BURIED IN THIS FIELD.
THIS FIELD. BUT THE
KURDS ARE STILL TRYING
BUT THE KURDS ARE STILL TRYING
TO IDENTIFY VICTIMS OF SADDAM
HUSSEIN'S ANFAL CAMPAIGN FROM
HUSSEIN'S ANFAL CAMPAIGN
FROM DECADES AGO.
DECADES AGO. AND
IDENTIFYING THESE BODIES
AND IDENTIFYING THESE
BODIES COULD TAKE YEARS.
COULD TAKE YEARS. NEAR
SINJAR'S TECHNICAL COLLEGE,
NEAR SINJAR'S TECHNICAL COLLEGE,
ISIS TURNED AN EMPTY FISH TANK
INTO A MASS GRAVE FOR YAZIDI
INTO A MASS GRAVE FOR
YAZIDI WOMEN THEY KILLED.
WOMEN THEY KILLED. HADI
BREEM OULO AND HIS FAMILY
HADI BREEM OULO AND HIS FAMILY
ERE.THE LAND FOR MILES NDH
ERE.THE LAND FOR MILES NDH HE
SAYS ISIS USED DYNAMITE TO
HE SAYS ISIS USED DYNAMITE
TO BLOW UP THEIR HOUSES.
BLOW UP THEIR HOUSES.
THEY EVEN SET FIRE TO THE
POMEGRANATE AND FIG TREES.
HE SAYS TIR AHERAB NEIGHBORS
WERE PART OF ISIS.
WERE PART OF ISIS. >> (
translated): IF ONE ARAB
>> (translated): IF ONE
ARAB STAYS HERE IN OUR REGION WE
WILL
STAYS HERE IN OUR REGION WE WILL
NOT BE ABLE TO LIVE TOGETHER.
NOT BE ABLE TO LIVE
TOGETHER. NEVER.
NEVER. ARABS TOOK
OUR MOTHERS AND
ARABS TOOK OUR MOTHERS AND
SISTERS, THEY TOOK OUR HONOR AND
SISTERS, THEY TOOK OUR
HONOR AND THEY SOLD IT.
THEY SOLD IT. THEY'VE
KILLED OLD PEOPLE.
THEY'VE KILLED OLD PEOPLE.
THEY'VE KILLED CHILDREN.
THEY'VE KILLED CHILDREN. THERE
IS NO WAY WE CAN ALL LIVE
THERE IS NO WAY WE CAN
ALL LIVE TOGETHER.
TOGETHER. >> Reporter:
AS DUSK FALLS,
>> Reporter: AS DUSK FALLS,
THESE YAZIDI MEN STOP TO LOOK
THESE YAZIDI MEN STOP TO
LOOK OUT OVER SINJAR.
OUT OVER SINJAR. THEIR
VILLAGE IS STILL HELD BY
THEIR VILLAGE IS STILL HELD BY
ISIS, BUT THEY WERE ABLE TO SEE
ISIS, BUT THEY WERE ABLE
TO SEE IT FROM A DISTANCE.
IT FROM A DISTANCE. SAAD
AIDO WAS LOOKING FOR THE
SAAD AIDO WAS LOOKING FOR THE
BODY OF HIS MOTHER WHERE SHE
BODY OF HIS MOTHER WHERE
SHE DIED ON THE MOUNTAIN.
DIED ON THE MOUNTAIN.
HE FOUND ONLY HER SHOE.
HE FOUND ONLY HER SHOE. BUT
HE THANKS GOD THEY WERE ABLE
BUT HE THANKS GOD THEY WERE ABLE
TO CATCH A GLIMPSE OF THEIR
TO CATCH A GLIMPSE OF
THEIR VILLAGE AGAIN.
VILLAGE AGAIN. DESPITE
THE TRAGEDY, SINJAR IS
DESPITE THE TRAGEDY,
SINJAR IS STILL HOME.
>> Sreenivasan: STAY WITH US.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
GIVING JOBS TO THE HOMELESS;
GIVING JOBS TO THE
HOMELESS; NO MORE MEAT?
NO MORE MEAT? THE
RISE IN PROTEIN
THE RISE IN PROTEIN
ALTERNATIVES; AND "A BOY FROM
GEORGIA," PRESIDENT CARTER'S
GEORGIA," PRESIDENT
CARTER'S RIGHT-HAND MAN.
RIGHT-HAND MAN. BUT FIRST,
OUR MONEY MAN, PAUL
BUT FIRST, OUR MONEY MAN, PAUL
SOLMAN, LOOKS AT THOSE ORIGINAL
THANKSGIVING CELEBRANTS-- THE
PILGRIMS-- AND THE ECONOMIC
PRESSURES THAT DROVE THEM TO
AMERICA, AND DEFINED SO MUCH OF
AMERICA, AND DEFINED SO
MUCH OF THEIR TIME HERE.
THEIR TIME HERE. IT'S PART
OF OUR WEEKLY SERIES,
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY SERIES,
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR. >>
Reporr: TteHANKSGIVING TIME
>> Reporr: TteHANKSGIVING TIME
AT PLIMOTH PLANTATION, A 17th
CENTURY LIVING HISTORY MUSEUM IN
CENTURY LIVING HISTORY
MUSEUM IN MASSACHUSETTS.
MASSACHUSETTS. THE YEAR?
THE YEAR? 1624, WHEN,
AS THE STORY GOES:
1624, WHEN, AS THE STORY GOES:
>> 100 PEOPLE LANDED ON A BARE
AND WINDY SHORE, SEEKING FREEDOM
FROM THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
FROM THE ENGLISH CHURCH. FOR
THIS, THEY WERE READY TO
FOR THIS, THEY WERE READY TO
CONFRONT THE GRIM AND GRISLY
CONFRONT THE GRIM AND
GRISLY FACE OF POVERTY.
FACE OF POVERTY. >> IN THE
BEGINNING, GOD CREATED
>> IN THE BEGINNING, GOD CREATED
THE HEAVEN AND THE EARTH...
>> Reporter: WE'VE LONG
CELEBRATED THE RELIGIOUS DRIVE
TO BUILD A CITY ON A HILL FOR
STRANGERS IN A STRANGE LAND.
BUT IT TURNS OUT THAT OUR
PILGRIMS CED FAPOVERTY AT LEAST
AS GRIM AND GRISLY BACK IN
HOLLAND, FROM WHENCE THEY HAD
FLED 16 YEARS EARLIER TO
SEPARATE FROM THE CHURCH OF
SEPARATE FROM THE
CHURCH OF ENGLAND.
ENGLAND. PATIENCE
PRENCE WAS AMONG THOSE
PATIENCE PRENCE WAS AMONG THOSE
WHO CAME TO PLIMOTH, AS PLAYED
WHO CAME TO PLIMOTH, AS
PLAYED BY ONE OF THE TA
BY ONE OF THE TA >> WE
LIVE A HUMBLE LIFE, BUT WE
>> WE LIVE A HUMBLE LIFE,
BUT WE WORK FOR OURSELVES.
WORK FOR OURSELVES. IN
HOLLAND, UH, WE COULD PUT
IN HOLLAND, UH, WE COULD PUT
FOOD ON OUR TABLES, BUT, IT WAS
FOOD ON OUR TABLES, BUT,
IT WAS A VERY HARD LABOR.
A VERY HARD LABOR. >>
Reporter: MEANWHILE, AMERICA
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, AMERICA
WAS LITERALLY, TO THEM, A NEW
WAS LITERALLY, TO
THEM, A NEW WORLD.
WORLD. >> WE WILL
BE ABLE TO TURN A
>> WE WILL BE ABLE TO TURN A
GOOD PROFIT SO THAT IT BENEFITS
GOOD PROFIT SO THAT
IT BENEFITS EVERYONE.
EVERYONE. >> IT MIGHT
BE A PLACE WHERE
>> IT MIGHT BE A PLACE WHERE
PROFIT AND RELIGION CAN JUMP
PROFIT AND RELIGION
CAN JUMP TOGETHER.
TOGETHER. THERE IS NO
SHAME IN DOING WELL,
THERE IS NO SHAME IN DOING WELL,
FOR ONE MUST STILL EXIST IN THIS
FOR ONE MUST STILL EXIST IN
THIS WORLD IN ORDER TO BE
WORLD IN ORDER TO
BE COMFORTABLE.
COMFORTABLE. >> Reporter:
STEPHEN HOPKINS WAS
>> Reporter: STEPHEN HOPKINS
WAS A MERCHANT COLONIST.
A MERCHANT COLONIST. WILL
YOU BECOME RICH, DO YOU
WILL YOU BECOME
RICH, DO YOU THINK?
THINK? >> WELL, I
IMAGINE ALL MEN
>> WELL, I IMAGINE ALL MEN
ENTERTAIN THE IDEA OF IT, BUT
UH, WELL, THAT REALLY SHALL BE
UH, WELL, THAT REALLY SHALL
BE NOT, UH, UP TO ME.
NOT, UH, UP TO ME. IT IS
HOPED THAT WE'LL AT LEAST
IT IS HOPED THAT WE'LL
AT LEAST PROSPER.
PROSPER. >> Reporter:
MOST OF THE
>> Reporter: MOST OF THE
PILGRIMS HAD BEEN FARMERS IN
ENGLAND, BUT MADE THEIR LIVING
IN THE CLOTH TRADE IN HOLLAND.
WHEN THE WOOL MARKET CRASHED,
THESE FOLKS WERE DESPERATE TO
THESE FOLKS WERE
DESPERATE TO EMIGRATE.
EMIGRATE. >> THEY
WERE LIVING IN DEEP
>> THEY WERE LIVING IN DEEP
PRIVATION AND IT WAS A WAY OF
PRIVATION AND IT WAS A
WAY OF ESCAPING POVERTY.
ESCAPING POVERTY. >>
Reporter: PLIMOTH HISTORIAN
>> Reporter: PLIMOTH
HISTORIAN RICHARD PICKERING.
RICHARD PICKERING. SO
WAS THE MAIN MOTIVATION
SO WAS THE MAIN MOTIVATION
REALLY, WHAT WE WOULD NOW CALL
REALLY, WHAT WE WOULD
NOW CALL ECONOMIC?
ECONOMIC? >> THERE
IS A RELIGIOUS
>> THERE IS A RELIGIOUS
MOTIVATION IN THE DESIRE TO
MOTIVATION IN THE DESIRE
TO PROTECT THE CHURCH.
PROTECT THE CHURCH. BUT
THOSE THAT WERE LIVING IN
BUT THOSE THAT WERE LIVING
IN HOLLAND WERE SAFE.
HOLLAND WERE SAFE. SO THAT
THEY COULD HAVE REMAINED
SO THAT THEY COULD HAVE REMAINED
AND WORSHIPED AS THEY WANTED BUT
IT IS AN ECONOMIC MOTIVATION TO
IT IS AN ECONOMIC MOTIVATION
TO BETTER THE LIVES OF THEIR
BETTER THE LIVES OF THEIR
CHILDREN AND GROW THE NUMBER OF
CHILDREN AND GROW THE
NUMBER OF CHURCH MEMBERS.
CHURCH MEMBERS. >> Reporter:
IN OTHER WORDS, THE
>> Reporter: IN OTHER WORDS, THE
PILGRIMS WERE VERY MUCH ECONOMIC
IMMIGRANTS, LIKE SO MANY WHO'VE
IMMIGRANTS, LIKE SO MANY
WHO'VE COME TO AMERICA SINCE.
COME TO AMERICA SINCE. BUT
IF SO POOR, HOW COULD THEY
BUT IF SO POOR, HOW COULD THEY
AFFORD AN OCEAN PASSAGE, WITH
PROVISIONS, TO AMERICA? THE
ANSWER IS SEVENTY-SOME-ODD
INVESTORS, KNOWN AS MERCHANT
INVESTORS, KNOWN AS
MERCHANT "ADVENTURERS."
"ADVENTURERS." THROUGH
THE MAGIC OF VIDEO
THROUGH THE MAGIC OF VIDEO
TELEPORTATION, PICKERING TOOK US
TO VISIT ONE, SUPPOSEDLY AT HIS
TO VISIT ONE, SUPPOSEDLY AT
HIS HOME OUTSIDE LONDON.
HOME OUTSIDE LONDON. >> DO
COME IN SIR, LET ME SHOW
>> DO COME IN SIR, LET ME SHOW
YOU HERE, WE'VE SOME FINE
PELTRY, FURS JUST BACK FROM NEW
PELTRY, FURS JUST BACK
FROM NEW ENGLAND.
ENGLAND. >> Reporter:
FULL DISCLOSURE: WE
>> Reporter: FULL DISCLOSURE:
WE WERE STILL IN RECONSTRUCTED
WERE STILL IN RECONSTRUCTED
PLIMOTH, BUT HOUSES THERE LOOKED
JUST LIKE THOSE IN SUBURBAN
JUST LIKE THOSE IN
SUBURBAN ENGLAND.
ENGLAND. WHAT'S THE
MAIN WAY IN WHICH
WHAT'S THE MAIN WAY IN WHICH
YOU'RE HOPING TO MAKE A PROFIT
YOU'RE HOPING TO
MAKE A PROFIT HERE?
HERE? >> WELL, CLOSE
AT HAND, SIR.
>> WELL, CLOSE AT HAND, SIR.
HERE, LOOKY WELL, FINE BEAVER
PELT, JUST BRUNG BACK.
PELT, JUST BRUNG BACK. AND,
UH, OUR REPORT IS THAT THEY
AND, UH, OUR REPORT IS THAT THEY
EXPECT MORE AND MORE OF SUCH
EXPECT MORE AND MORE
OF SUCH THINGS.
THINGS. >> Reporter: WHY FURS?
>> Reporter: WHY FURS? DO
PEOPLE WEAR FUR COATS HERE IN
DO PEOPLE WEAR FUR
COATS HERE IN LONDON?
LONDON? >> OH NO, SIR.
>> OH NO, SIR. IT'S THE
HATS, THE BEAVER HATS.
IT'S THE HATS, THE BEAVER HATS.
ALL GOOD PEOPLNOW E WEAR BEAVER
ALL GOOD PEOPLNOW E
WEAR BEAVER HATS.
HATS. YOU MAY
REMEMBER THAT FAMOUS
YOU MAY REMEMBER THAT FAMOUS
INDIAN PRINCESS THAT COME FROM
VIRGINIA, THAT SOME WOULD CALL
POCAHONTAS; THOUGH IN ENGLAND,
GENERALLY, SHE WAS CALLED
GENERALLY, SHE WAS
CALLED REBECCA.
REBECCA. AND, SHE HAD
HER PORTRAIT, I'M
AND, SHE HAD HER PORTRAIT,
I'M TOLD, IN A FINE BEAVER.
TOLD, IN A FINE BEAVER. >>
Reporter: THE TRADEABLE GOODS
>> Reporter: THE TRADEABLE GOODS
OF AMERICA WERE THE THREE F'S:
FUR, FISH AND FORESTS, WHICH
PROVIDED WOOD LIKE PINE FOR AN
INCREASINGLY CLEAR-CUT ENGLAND.
>> IN ENGLAND, THERE'S HARDLY A
>> IN ENGLAND, THERE'S HARDLY
A PINE TILL YOU GET UP TO
PINE TILL YOU GET
UP TO SCOTLAND!
SCOTLAND! >> Reporter:
BUT TO GET THE
>> Reporter: BUT TO GET THE
GOODS, YOU HAD TO GET TO
GOODS, YOU HAD TO
GET TO AMERICA.
AMERICA. AND SURVIVE.
AND SURVIVE. SO
INVESTORS IN LONDON
SO INVESTORS IN LONDON
BANKROLLED THE VENTURE BY
PURCHASING SHARES IN A STOCK
COMPANY, AS WITH SIMILAR
VENTURES IN VIRGINIA, BERMUDA
VENTURES IN VIRGINIA,
BERMUDA AND ELSEWHERE.
AND ELSEWHERE. TEN POUNDS
FOR A SINGLE SHARE,
TEN POUNDS FOR A SINGLE SHARE,
ROUGHLY SIX MONTHS' WORTH OF AN
ORDINARY WORKER'S WAGES: $15-20
ORDINARY WORKER'S WAGES:
$15-20 THOUSAND TODAY, MAYBE.
THOUSAND TODAY, MAYBE. ONE
MERCHANT MAY HAVE INVESTED
ONE MERCHANT MAY HAVE INVESTED
AS MUCH AS SEVERAL HUNDRED
THOUSAND IN CURRENT DOLLARS.
EACH COLONIST OVER AGE 16 GOT
ONE SHARE JUST FOR EMIGRATING,
WORKING THE TERRITORY, AND
MAKING A PROFIT FOR THE
MAKING A PROFIT FOR
THE INVESTORS.
INVESTORS.
SHIP RAW MATERIALS BACK
TO THEM TO BE SOLD.
TO BE SOLD. >> Reporter:
MERCHANT COLONIST
>> Reporter: MERCHANT
COLONIST STEPHEN HOPKINS.
STEPHEN HOPKINS. >> THEY
WOULD SEND TRADE GOODS
>> THEY WOULD SEND TRADE GOODS
ONTO US ANNUALLY AND WITH A
PROMISE, OR HOPE, THAT THERE
WOULD BE A DIVIDEND AT THE END
WOULD BE A DIVIDEND AT THE
END OF THE SEVENTH YEAR.
OF THE SEVENTH YEAR. THE
DIVIDEND, THE PROFIT THAT
THE DIVIDEND, THE PROFIT THAT
COMES IN SILVER AND GOLD SHALL
GO TO THE FOUNDERS, THE
GO TO THE FOUNDERS,
THE FINANCERS.
FINANCERS. >>
Reporter: ONCE THOSE
>> Reporter: ONCE THOSE
"FINANCERS" WERE PAID BACK, THE
COLONISTS WOULD GET THE DEED TOE
KING TO THE INVESTORS, AND ALL
FUTURE PROFITS WOULD BE THEIRS.
SO THIS IS A CAPITALIST
ENTERPRISE FROM THE GET-GO?
>> IT WAS CAPITALISM FROM THE
>> IT WAS CAPITALISM
FROM THE VE BEGRYINNING.
VE BEGRYINNING. THE INTENT
WAS TO PROSPER HERE
THE INTENT WAS TO PROSPER HERE
IN ANY WAY THAT THEY COULD,
WHETHER IT WAS THE FUR TRADE,
TIMBER TRADE OR FISHING.
>> Reporter: BUT THE EARLY
EFFORTS TO PAY OFF THEIR
INVESTORS FAILED.
INVESTORS FAILED. THE
FIRST WINTER WAS BRUTAL;
THE FIRST WINTER WAS BRUTAL;
NEARLY HALF OF THE COLONISTS
NEARLY HALF OF THE
COLONISTS DIED.
DIED. >> FIRSTHIP
SIT WAS THAT WE
>> FIRSTHIP SIT WAS THAT WE
SENT BACK EMPTY FOR REASONS OF
BARELY BEING ABLE TO SURVIVE.
AND SADLY THE SECOND SHIP I SENT
BACK, LADEN WITH GOODS, WAS
TAKEN BY FRENCH PIRATES RIGHT
BEFORE IT REACHED ENGLAND.
BEFORE IT REACHED ENGLAND. >>
Reporter: AND TURKISH PIRATES
>> Reporter: AND TURKISH PIRATES
TOOK ANOTHER; THEN AS NOW, HAWKS
TOOK ANOTHER; THEN AS NOW,
HAWKS STALKED THEIR CHICKENS;
STALKED THEIR CHICKENS;
COMPETING COLONISTS SET UP SHOP
ALONG THE NEW ENGLAND COAST AND
INLAND, CLOSER TO THE SUPPLIERS.
THAT MEANT THAT WHEN TRADING
WITH THE NATIVES, THE PRICE OF
BEAVER KEPT GETTING BID UP--
BEAVER KEPT GETTING BID
UP-- SETBACKS GALORE.
SETBACKS GALORE. BUT THE
INVESTORS BACK HOMEERE W
BUT THE INVESTORS BACK
HOMEERE W GETTING IMPATIENT.
GETTING IMPATIENT. >>
SOME OF THEM IMAGINE THEY
>> SOME OF THEM IMAGINE THEY
MIGHT CAST SEEDS ON THE GROUND
AND PRESS THE CIDER THE SAME
YEAR, BUT IT IS NOT SO IN
YEAR, BUT IT IS NOT
SO IN BUSINESS.
BUSINESS. >> Reporter:
WHAT WAS SO IN
>> Reporter: WHAT WAS SO IN
BUSINESS: DISTRUST, INVESTORS
WHO BILKED THE INEXPERIENCED
COLONISTS, AND DEMANDED QUICK
COLONISTS, AND DEMANDED
QUICK PROFITS.
PROFITS. >> MANY A
TIME IT IS THAT WE ARE
>> MANY A TIME IT IS THAT WE ARE
TREATED LITTLE BETTER THAN A
TREATED LITTLE BETTER THAN
A SLAVE OR A SERVANT.
SLAVE OR A SERVANT. BUT
WHILST MY SHARE IS EQUAL TO
BUT WHILST MY SHARE IS EQUAL TO
SOMEONE IN ENGLAND, HE MIGHT
HAVE A HUNDRED MORE OF THOSE
HAVE A HUNDRED MORE OF
THOSE EQUAL SHARES.
EQUAL SHARES. THUS
THE MINORITY HAS THE
THUS THE MINORITY HAS THE
MAJORITY OF THE SHAREHOLDING.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE
OWNERSHIP DISPARITY, HOWEVER,
COLONISTS WHO SURVIVED TENDED TO
COLONISTS WHO SURVIVED TENDED
TO PROSPER, EVEN THE INDENTURED
PROSPER, EVEN THE INDENTURED
SERVANTS, WHO GOT NO SHARES AND
HAD TO WORK SEVEN YEARS FOR
HAD TO WORK SEVEN YEARS
FOR THEIR FREEDOM.
THEIR FREEDOM. EDWARD
DOTY SERVED STEPHEN
EDWARD DOTY SERVED
STEPHEN HOPKINS.
HOPKINS. DO YOU THINK
YOU COULD EVER BE A
DO YOU THINK YOU COULD EVER BE A
RICH MAN IN AMERICA? DO YOU HAVE
WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL AN AMERICAN
WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL
AN AMERICAN DREAM?
DREAM? >> RICH IN
LAND, RICH IN WOODS,
>> RICH IN LAND, RICH IN WOODS,
WHICH YOU MAKE QUITE A LOT OF
WHICH YOU MAKE QUITE
A LOT OF MONEY WITH.
MONEY WITH. BUT NO
MATTER WHAT, IF YOU GET
BUT NO MATTER WHAT, IF YOU GET
LAND HERE, PEOPLE WILL RESPECT
YOU AND IF THERE WILL BECOME A
TIME LIKE I EXPECT IT TO BE AND
A TRUE SETTLEMENT, THERE IS A
A TRUE SETTLEMENT, THERE
IS A PROFIT TO BE HAD.
PROFIT TO BE HAD. >>
Reporter: AND THAT WAS VERY
>> Reporter: AND THAT WAS VERY
DIFFERENT FROM THE OLD COUNTRY.
>> SO IN ENGLAND, UH, OWNING
LAND IS FOR, UH, GENTRY AND
LAND IS FOR, UH,
GENTRY AND NOBLEMEN.
NOBLEMEN. BUT, PEOPLE
OF OUR SORT WOULD
BUT, PEOPLE OF OUR SORT
WOULD USUALLY ONLY RENT IT.
USUALLY ONLY RENT IT. >>
Reporter: WE HAD ONE LAST
>> Reporter: WE HAD ONE LAST
QUESTION FOR THE PLANTATION'S
QUESTION FOR THE
PLANTATION'S HISTORIAN.
HISTORIAN. WHAT'S THE
RELEVANCE IF ANY, OF
WHAT'S THE RELEVANCE IF ANY, OF
ECONOMICS BEING THE MAIN DRIVER
OF THE PLIMOTH PLANTATION?
>> SO OFTEN, WE THINK OF THE
>> SO OFTEN, WE THINK OF
THE PILGRIMS SYMBOLICALLY.
PILGRIMS SYMBOLICALLY. WE
DON'T LOOK AT THEIR EVERYDAY
WE DON'T LOOK AT THEIR EVERYDAY
BUSINESS LIVES AND REALIZE THAT
THEIR SUCCESS ENABLED LATER
SETTLEMENT AND CONTRIBUTED TO
THE CREATION OF AN IMMIGRANT
COUNTRY. >> Reporter:
THIS IS ECONOMICS
>> Reporter: THIS IS ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN,
REPORTING FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
FROM THE 17th CENTURY-- SORT OF.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT, HOW THE
CITY OF ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO
IS PAYING PANHANDLERS TO WORK
AND MOVING HOMELESS PEOPLE INTO
HOUSING-- AND SAVING TAXPAYERS
MONEY IN THE PROCESS.
MONEY IN THE PROCESS. SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT KATHLEEN
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KATHLEEN
McCLEERY HAS OUR REPORT.
McCLEERY HAS OUR REPORT. >>
LUNCH AND BREAKFAST SNACK
>> LUNCH AND BREAKFAST
SNACK PREPARED TODAY.
PREPARED TODAY. >>
Reporter: IT'S 7:00 ON A
>> Reporter: IT'S 7:00 ON A
TUESDAY MORNING, AND WILLIAM
COLE IS PACKING A COOLER FULL OF
COLE IS PACKING A
COOLER FULL OF LUNCHES.
LUNCHES. >> ONE OF
OUR FIRST STOPS WILL
>> ONE OF OUR FIRST STOPS WILL
BE RIGHT HERE AT I-40 AND FOURTH
BE RIGHT HERE AT I-40
AND FOURTH STREET.
STREET. WE'VE GOT A
GUY RIGHT HERE WE
WE'VE GOT A GUY RIGHT
HERE WE CAN GET.
CAN GET. GOOD MORNING, SIR.
GOOD MORNING, SIR.
>> GOOD MORNING.
>> GOOD MORNING. >>
Reporter: TWICE A WEEK,
>> Reporter: TWICE A WEEK, COLE
DRIVES A VAN ALONG THROUGH
COLE DRIVES A VAN ALONG THROUGH
ALBUQUERQUE'S BUSY STREETS.
>> WE'RE LOOKING FOR
PANHANDLERS, HOMELESS PEOPLE,
ANYONE WHO LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE
INTERESTD AND NEED HELP.
HOW YOU GUYS DOING?
>> ALL RIGHT, MAN.
>> ALL RIGHT, MAN. >>
Reporter: NEARLY EVERYONE
>> Reporter: NEARLY EVERYONE
WILLIAM APPROACHES GETS IN THE
WILLIAM APPROACHES
GETS IN THE VAN.
VAN. THE AIM IS TO
GET THEM OFF THE
THE AIM IS TO GET THEM OFF THE
STREETS AND TO A CITY JOB SITE
WHERE TY'LLHE PULL WEEDS AND
PICK UP TRASH, INCLUDING ITEMS
LEFT BY FELLOW HOMELESS.
LEFT BY FELLOW HOMELESS. >>
WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS REFUSE
>> WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS REFUSE
REMOVAL AND GETTING RID OF
WEEDS, OVERGROWTH, AND JUST
TRYING TO BEAUTIFY THE CITY.
>> Reporter: THEY WORK HARD
>> Reporter: THEY WORK
HARD FOR FIVE HOURS.
FOR FIVE HOURS. SOME COME
BACK WEEK AFTER WEEK.
SOME COME BACK WEEK AFTER WEEK.
THE PAY IS $9 AN HOUR, $1.50
MORE THAN THE MINIMUM WAGE.
AN>>YBODY WANT A YOGURT?
AN>>YBODY WANT A
YOGURT? >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> Reporter:
PLUS, THEY GET
>> Reporter: PLUS,
THEY GET LUNCH.
LUNCH. >> WE'LL SEE YOU LATER.
>> WE'LL SEE YOU
LATER. >> 20, 40, $45.
>> 20, 40, $45. >> Reporter:
THE CASH THEY GET
>> Reporter: THE CASH THEY GET
MEANS A LOT TO THE WORKERS.
>> INSTEAD OF GOING TO THE
MISSION, AT LEAST YOU GO TO GO
TO BURGER KING AND McDONALD'S,
AND YOU GO BACK TO THE ROOM AND
YOU SLEEP NICE AND COMFORTABLE
INSTEAD OF SLEEPING ON THE
INSTEAD OF SLEEPING
ON THE CARDBOARD.
CARDBOARD. >> I GOT TO
PUT SOME MONEY IN MY
>> I GOT TO PUT SOME
MONEY IN MY POCKET.
POCKET. I HELPED CLEAN
UP THE COMMUNITY,
I HELPED CLEAN UP THE COMMUNITY,
AND IT'S A GOOD FEELING.
AND IT'S A GOOD FEELING. >>
HERE AT LEAST I GOT A GOOD
>> HERE AT LEAST I GOT A
GOOD DAY'S WORTH OF WORK IN.
DAY'S WORTH OF WORK IN. I
DON'T FEEL BAD BECAUSE, I
I DON'T FEEL BAD BECAUSE, I
MEAN, I HONESTLY WORKED AND
MEAN, I HONESTLY WORKED
AND EARNED MY WAGES.
EARNED MY WAGES. >>
Reporter: THE PROGRAM IS
>> Reporter: THE PROGRAM IS
THE BRAINCHILD OF ALBUQUERQUE
MAYOR RICHARD BEAR.
MAYOR RICHARD BEAR. >> I
WAS DRIVING IN MY CAR ONE
>> I WAS DRIVING IN MY CAR ONE
DAY AND I WAS AT THE STOP LIGHT
AND THERE WAS A GENTLEMAN
HOLDING A SIGN THAT SAYS, "WILL
HOLDING A SIGN THAT
SAYS, "WILL WORK."
WORK." SO I CAME BACK
TO THE OFFICE AND
SO I CAME BACK TO THE OFFICE AND
I TOLD MY STAFF, "WE'RE GOING TO
I TOLD MY STAFF, "WE'RE GOING
TO TAKE THESE FOLKS UP ON THEIR
TAKE THESE FOLKS UP
ON THEIR OFFER."
OFFER." INSTEAD OF
BEING PUNITIVE AND
INSTEAD OF BEING PUNITIVE AND
GIVING SOMEBODY A TICKET FOR
PANHANDLE, WHY DON'T WE GIVE
THEM A BETTER OPPORTUNITY.
>> THEY STRUCK A PARTNERSHIP
WITH A NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION.
THE CITY CONTRIBUTES THE VAN
PLUS WAGES FOR THE DRIVERS AND
PLUS WAGES FOR THE
DRIVERS AND THE WORKERS.
THE WORKERS. ST. MARTINS
RUNS THE PROGRAM AND
ST. MARTINS RUNS THE PROGRAM
AND OFFERS A VARIETY OF OTHER
OFFERS A VARIETY OF OTHER
SERVICES, SAYS EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR FATHER RUSTY SMITH.
DIRECTOR FATHER RUSTY SMITH. >>
WE SERVE BETWEEN 300 AND 500
>> WE SERVE BETWEEN 300
AND 500 MEALS A DAY.
MEALS A DAY. WE PROVIDE
LAUNDRY SERVICES AT
WE PROVIDE LAUNDRY SERVICES
AT NO COST TO OUR CLIENTS.
NO COST TO OUR CLIENTS.
WE PROVIDE SHOWERS.
WE PROVIDE SHOWERS. WE ALL
PROVIDE LONG-TERM STORAGE
WE ALL PROVIDE LONG-TERM STORAGE
THAT ALLOWS THEM TO TAKE THE
PRECIOUS THINGS THEY HAVE AND
KEEP THEM IN A SAFE PLACE.
KEEP THEM IN A SAFE PLACE. OUR
CLIENTS HAVE NO ADDRESS, AND
OUR CLIENTS HAVE NO ADDRESS, AND
SO THIS IS A PLACE WHERE THEY
CAN GET ALL OF THEIR IMPORTANT
CAN GET ALL OF THEIR
IMPORTANT MAIL.
MAIL. WE ALSO HAVE A HUGE MENTAL
WE ALSO HAVE A HUGE MENTAL
HEALTH FACILITY, AND WE ADDRESS
ALL THE MAJOR CAUSES OF
HOMELESSNESS AND TRY TO RESOLVE
HOMELESSNESS AND TRY TO
RESOLVE THEM ON THIS CAMPUS.
THEM ON THIS CAMPUS. >>
I'M HOMELESS, I'M HUNGRY.
>> I'M HOMELESS, I'M HUNGRY.
>> Reporter: ST. MARTINS SENDS
AN OUTREACH TEAM TO COMB CITY
AN OUTREACH TEAM TO COMB
CITY PARKS AND OTHER SPOTS.
PARKS AND OTHER SPOTS. THEY'RE
CALLED ANGELS IN OWNER
THEY'RE CALLED ANGELS IN OWNER
AND THEY BRING HOT SOUP,
BLANKETS AND OFFERS OF HELP TO
THOSE WHO SUFFER MENTAL AND
THOSE WHO SUFFER MENTAL
AND PHYSICAL AILMENTS.
PHYSICAL AILMENTS. MENTAL
ILLNESS IS A LARGE
MENTAL ILLNESS IS A LARGE
CONTRIBUTOR TO HOMELESSNESS.
ALBUQUERQUE MADE NATIONAL NEWS
LAST YEAR WHEN POLICE SHOT AND
KILLED JAMES BOYD, A HOMELESS
MAN, IN THE FOOTHILLS OF THE
MAN, IN THE FOOTHILLS OF
THE SANDIA MOUNTAINS.
SANDIA MOUNTAINS. >> MR.
BOYD WAS A CLIENT OF OURS
>> MR. BOYD WAS A CLIENT OF
OURS AND I BURIED MR. BOYD.
AND I BURIED MR. BOYD. AND
HE WAS SOMEONE WHO HAD
AND HE WAS SOMEONE WHO HAD
SEVERE MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES.
MR. BOYD'S DEATH WAS A WAKE-UP
MR. BOYD'S DEATH WAS
A WAKE-UP CALL.
CALL. HE BROUGHT
HOMELESSNESS TO THE
HE BROUGHT HOMELESSNESS TO THE
FACE AND TO THE AWARENESS OF
EVERYBODY IN OUR COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: EVEN MORE
ATTENTION CAME WHEN THE BOYD
FAMILY GOT A $5 MILLION
SETTLEMENT FROM THE CITY AND
DECIDED TO DONATE $200,000 OF IT
DECIDED TO DONATE $200,000 OF
IT TO HOMELESS ORGANIZATIONS.
TO HOMELESS ORGANIZATIONS.
THE OFFICIAL COUNT OF THE
HOMELESS IN ALBUQUERQUE WAS
HOMELESS IN ALBUQUERQUE
WAS ABOUT 1400 LAST YEAR.
ABOUT 1400 LAST
YEAR. >> SHOWERS!
>> SHOWERS! >> Reporter:
BUT FATHER RUSTY
>> Reporter: BUT FATHER RUSTY
SAYS HIS ORGANIZATION SERVES
ABOUT 7,000 PEOPLE ANNUALLY.
>> WE COUNT THOSE WHO ARE BOTH
HOMELESS AS WELL AS THOSE WHO
ARE MARGINALLY POOR SO WE SERVE
A MUCH LARGER POPULATION.
>> Reporter: ALBUQUERQUE'S
HOMELESS PROBLEM MAY SEEM SMALL
HOMELESS PROBLEM MAY SEEM
SMALL COMPARED WITH LARGER
COMPARED WITH LARGER
METROPOLITAN AREAS, BUT NEW
MEXICO HAS LONG BEEN ONE OF THE
POOREST STATES, RANKING SECOND
WORST LAST YEAR WITH ONE IN FIVE
OF ITS TWO MILLION RESIDENTS
LIVING BELOW THE FEDERAL POVERTY
LIVING BELOW THE
FEDERAL POVERTY LINE.
LINE. THE CITY'S ATTACK ON
THE CITY'S ATTACK ON
HOMELESSNESS INCLUDES AN EFFORT
ADAPTED FROM A NATIONAL MOVE TO
ADAPTED FROM A NATIONAL
MOVE TO PUT HOUSING FIRST.
PUT HOUSING FIRST. IT
FOCUSES ON THE CHRONICALLY
IT FOCUSES ON THE CHRONICALLY
HOMELESS, THOSE MOST LIKELY TO
HOMELESS, THOSE MOST LIKELY
TO DIE ON THE STREETS.
DIE ON THE STREETS. >> WELL,
IT'S GOOD THAT YOU MADE
>> WELL, IT'S GOOD THAT
YOU MADE IT IN HERE.
IT IN HERE. >> Reporter:
DENNIS PLUMBER
>> Reporter: DENNIS PLUMBER
RUNS HEADING HOME.
RUNS HEADING HOME. >>
WE HAVE EVERYTHING FROM
>> WE HAVE EVERYTHING FROM
EMERGENCY SHELTER TO PERMANENT
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING, AND WE ACT
AS A BACKBONE ORGANIZATION OF A
AS A BACKBONE ORGANIZATION OF
A COLLABORATION FOCUSED ON
COLLABORATION FOCUSED ON
MEDICALLY VULNERABLE,
CHRONICALLY HOMELESS PERSONS AND
CHRONICALLY HOMELESS PERSONS
AND GETTING THEM TO PERMANENT,
GETTING THEM TO PERMANENT,
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING.
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING. >>
Reporter: KENNETH BARBOUR,
>> Reporter: KENNETH BARBOUR,
A VETERAN WHO SUFFERS FROM
SEIZURES AND POST-TRAUMATIC
STRESS DISORDER, GOT HIS
APARTMENT IN AUGUST AFTER BEING
HOMELESS OFF AND ON FOR THREE
HOMELESS OFF AND ON
FOR THREE YEARS.
YEARS. >> IT'S A
LOFT APARTMENT, AND
>> IT'S A LOFT APARTMENT, AND
IT'S GOT A BEAUTIFUL FIREPLACE.
I GOT A BEAUTIFUL BEDROOM.
I GOT A BEAUTIFUL BEDROOM. THEY
FURNISHED ALL MY FURNITURE,
THEY FURNISHED ALL MY FURNITURE,
AND UTENSILS, COOKING, FOOD, IF
AND UTENSILS, COOKING,
FOOD, IF I NEED FOOD.
I NEED FOOD. >> THE
FIRST MAJOR SURGERY
>> THE FIRST MAJOR
SURGERY YOU'VE HAD.
YOU'VE HAD. >> YES.
>> YES. >> Reporter:
HEADING HOME ALSO
>> Reporter: HEADING HOME ALSO
OFFERS BEDS FOR THOSE DISCHARGED
FROM HOSPITALS WITH NO PLACE TO
FROM HOSPITALS WITH
NO PLACE TO GO.
GO. >> YOU HAVE
PEOPLE HERE THAT ARE
>> YOU HAVE PEOPLE HERE THAT
ARE RECOVERING FROM SURGERY.
RECOVERING FROM SURGERY. ONE
OF OUR EARLIER RESIDENTS IN
ONE OF OUR EARLIER RESIDENTS
IN THE BEDS NEEDED A QUADRUPLE
THE BEDS NEEDED A
QUADRUPLE BYPASS.
BYPASS. THE DOCTOR
REFUSED TO DO THE
THE DOCTOR REFUSED TO DO THE
OPERATION BECAUSE HIS RECOVERY
WOULD HAVE BEEN IN THE STREET.
ONCE WE WERE ABLE TO SAY, "WE
HAVE A MEDICAL RESPITE BED" THEY
COULD DO THE QUADRUPLE BYPASS.
>> Reporter: WHAT IS THE COST?
THE COST FOR US VERY MINIMAL,
THE COST FOR US VERY
MINIMAL, $150 A NIGHT.
$150 A NIGHT. IF THAT
SAME PERSON HAD BEEN IN
IF THAT SAME PERSON HAD BEEN IN
THE HOSPITAL,UN WHAT HOSPITAL
COSTS ARE LIKE, EASILY $600 TO
$4,000 A DAY, DEPENDING ON THE
$4,000 A DAY, DEPENDING ON
THE CARE THAT'S NEEDED.
CARE THAT'S NEEDED. >>
Reporter: THE PAYBACK FROM
>> Reporter: THE PAYBACK FROM
THE VARIOUS PROGRAMS IS GREAT,
SAYS THE MAYOR, AND KEEPS THE
HOMELESS OUT OF HOSPITALS AND
HOMELESS OUT OF
HOSPITALS AND JAILS.
JAILS. WE MET IN A
COFFEE SHOP RUN BY
WE MET IN A COFFEE SHOP RUN BY
ST. MARTIN'S THAT GIVES JOB
TRAINING TO THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN
TRAINING TO THOSE WHO
HAVE BEEN HOMELESS.
HOMELESS. >> WE THINK
WE CAN PUT PEOPLE IN
>> WE THINK WE CAN PUT PEOPLE IN
HOUSING AND GET THEM STABILIZED
FOR LESS MONEY THAN LETTING THEM
SLEEP UNDER THE OVERPASS AND WE
COMMISSIONED THE UNIVERSITY OF
NEW MEXICO TO DO THE STUDY AND
SURE ENOUGH IT COSTS ABOUT 31%
LESTO GET PEOPLE HOUSED AND
STABILIZED THAN TO LET THEM GO
TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM EVERY TIME
THEY NEED MEDICAL CARE OR TO
LIVE IN CRISIS IN A CONSTANT
STATE OF STRUGGLE ON THE
STATE OF STRUGGLE
ON THE STREETS.
STREETS. >> Reporter:
WHETHER THE VAN
>> Reporter: WHETHER THE VAN
PROGRAM WILL MAKE A DIFFERENCE
PROGRAM WILL MAKE A
DIFFERENCE ISN'T CLEAR YET.
ISN'T CLEAR YET. IT'S
ONLY BEEN RUNNING SINCE
IT'S ONLY BEEN RUNNING
SINCE SEPTEMBER.
SEPTEMBER. AND SO FAR,
IT HAS SERVED JUST A
AND SO FAR, IT HAS SERVED JUST A
TINY FRACTION OF THE HOMELESS
TINY FRACTION OF THE
HOMELESS POPULATION.
POPULATION. ANY CONCERN
ABOUT THE SCALE, ONE
ANY CONCERN ABOUT THE SCALE, ONE
VAN, 10 PEOPLE AT A TIME, TWICE
VAN, 10 PEOPLE AT A
TIME, TWICE A WEEK?
A WEEK? >> HEY, YOU
KNOW, PLANT A LITTLE
>> HEY, YOU KNOW, PLANT A LITTLE
MUSTARD SEED AND IT GROWS TO--
YOU KNOW, THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
YOU KNOW, THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO.
TRYING TO DO. >> Reporter:
THE PROGRAM HAS
>> Reporter: THE PROGRAM HAS
ATTRACTED THE ATTENTION OF
ATTRACTED THE ATTENTION
OF MAYORS FROM SEATTLE TO
MAYORS FROM SEATTLE
TO PITTSBURGH.
PITTSBURGH. 37 HAVE
CALLED ALREADY ASKING
37 HAVE CALLED ALREADY
ASKING HOW IT'S DONE.
HOW IT'S DONE. >> ALBUQUERQUE
IS A BIG AMERICAN
>> ALBUQUERQUE IS A
BIG AMERICAN CITY.
CITY. BUT YET WE'RE
SMALL ENOUGH TO
BUT YET WE'RE SMALL ENOUGH TO
WHERE WE CAN BE AGILE AND NIMBLE
WHERE WE CAN BE AGILE AND
NIMBLE AND CAN TRY NEW THINGS.
AND CAN TRY NEW THINGS.
THIS IS WORKING HERE.
THIS IS WORKING HERE. IF YOU
ARE A SMALLER CITY, YOU
IF YOU ARE A SMALLER CITY, YOU
COULD DO IT ON A SMALLER SCALE.
IF A LARGER CITY ON A LARGER
IF A LARGER CITY
ON A LARGER SCALE.
SCALE. >> Reporter:
BARRY SAYS HE
>> Reporter: BARRY SAYS HE PLANS
TO RAMP UP THE VAN PROGRAM
PLANS TO RAMP UP THE
VAN PROGRAM NEXT YEAR.
NEXT YEAR. I'M KATHLEEN
McCLEERY FOR THE
I'M KATHLEEN McCLEERY FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR IN ALBUQUERQUE, NEW
PBS NEWSHOUR IN
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.
MEXICO. >> Sreenivasan:
HOMELESSNESS
>> Sreenivasan: HOMELESSNESS
REMAINS A NATIONWIDE CONCERN AND
IT IS ESPECIALLY PREVALENT IN
IT IS ESPECIALLY PREVALENT
IN THE NATION'S CAPITOL.
THE NATION'S CAPITOL. LAST
WEEK, NOT FAR FROM THE
LAST WEEK, NOT FAR FROM THE
HISTORIC WATERGATE HOTEL AND
NEAR THE AFFLUENT NEIGHBORHOOD
OF GEORGETOWN, CITY OFFICIALS
DISMANTLED A TENT CITY THAT
SPROUTED UP THIS YEAR UNDER A
SPROUTED UP THIS YEAR
UNDER A FREEWAY OVERPASS.
FREEWAY OVERPASS. THE
DISTRICT'S HEALTH AND HUMAN
THE DISTRICT'S HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES DIVISION DECLARED THE
AREA UNSANITARY, UNSAFE, AND
AREA UNSANITARY,
UNSAFE, AND UNLAWFUL.
UNLAWFUL. AFTER
ISSUING NOTICES OF
AFTER ISSUING NOTICES OF
EVICTION THEY GAVE THE CHOICE TO
EVICTION THEY GAVE THE CHOICE
TO VOLUNTARILY MOVE OFF THE
VOLUNTARILY MOVE OFF THE
PROPERTY WITH BELONGINGS OR THE
CITY WOULD FORCEFULLY REMOVE
THEM AND DISPOSE OF THEIR
THEM AND DISPOSE OF
THEIR POSSESSIONS.
POSSESSIONS. MOST DECIDED
TO REMAIN ON THE
MOST DECIDED TO REMAIN
ON THE STREETS.
STREETS. >> WE DIDN'T
PLAN FOR THIS, YOU
>> WE DIDN'T PLAN
FOR THIS, YOU KNOW.
KNOW. I USE THIS
TENT TO SLEEP IN.
I USE THIS TENT TO SLEEP IN.
I GET UP AND GO TO WORK JUST
I GET UP AND GO TO WORK
JUST LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE.
LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE. P
P IT'S JUST I DON'T MAKE ENOUGH
IT'S JUST I DON'T MAKE ENOUGH
MONEY TO GET ME AN APARTMENT.
WHAT ACTUALLY AM I DOING THAT'S
WHAT ACTUALLY AM I DOING
THAT'S HARMING THE COMMUNITY?
HARMING THE COMMUNITY? IS
IT JUST BECAUSE YA'LL JUST
IS IT JUST BECAUSE YA'LL JUST
DON'T LIKE TO SEE TENTS OUT IN
DON'T LIKE TO SEE TENTS
OUT IN THE COMMUNITY?
THE COMMUNITY? >> EVERYWHERE
YOU GO, THERE'S NO
>> EVERYWHERE YOU GO,
THERE'S NO PLACE TO LIVE.
PLACE TO LIVE. I'M NOT
HERE TO HARM NOBODY.
I'M NOT HERE TO HARM NOBODY. I
JUST WANT TO SURVIVE AND LIVE
I JUST WANT TO SURVIVE
AND LIVE BETTER LIFE.
BETTER LIFE. BUT
IT'S GETTING HARDER.
BUT IT'S GETTING HARDER.
ESPECIALLY WITH NO HOME LEFT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL OFS
>> Sreenivasan: ALL OFS OFFERED
TO LOCATE THE HOMELESS
OFFERED TO LOCATE THE HOMELESS
TO SHELTERS AND APARTMENTS
AROUND ESTATE AS WELL AS STEOR
THE BELONGINGS TOO BULKY FOR THE
THE BELONGINGS TOO BULKY FOR
THE RESIDENTS TO CARRY.
>> Sreenivasan: TONIGHT, A LOOK
AT THE GROWING PHENOMENON OF
AT THE GROWING PHENOMENON
OF MEATLESS PROTEIN.
MEATLESS PROTEIN. AMERICANS
EAT THE EQUIVALENT OF
AMERICANS EAT THE EQUIVALENT OF
322 QUARTER POUND BURGERS PER
322 QUARTER POUND BURGERS
PER PERSON EVERY YEAR.
PERSON EVERY YEAR. THAT'S
THREE TIMES AS MUCH BEEF
THAT'S THREE TIMES AS MUCH BEEF
AS THE WORLD AVERAGE; AND WITH
EACH POUND REQUIRING MORE THAN
50 GALLONS OF WATER, PRODUCERS
IN DROUGHT STRICKEN CALIFORNIA
ARE LOOKING TO FIND OTHER WAYS
TO GET PROTEIN INTO OUR DIETS.
OUR STORY COMES TO US FROM
DR. JAMES HAMBLIN, A SENIOR
EDITOR AT "THE ATLANTIC
EDITOR AT "THE
ATLANTIC MAGAZINE."
MAGAZINE." >> I'M HERE
AT THE FOOD TECH INO
>> I'M HERE AT THE FOOD TECH INO
WHERE START-UPS ARE COMPETING TO
REPLACE ANIMAL MEAT WITH NEW,
SUSTAINABLE SOURCES OF PROTEIN.
>> IT COMBINES NUTRITIONAL
ANIMAL PROTEIN WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY OF
ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY
OF PLANT PROTEIN.
PLANT PROTEIN. >> WE
DO NOT PUT INSECTS
>> WE DO NOT PUT INSECTS
ANYWHERE IN OR AROUND OUR
ANYWHERE IN OR
AROUND OUR PRODUCTS.
PRODUCTS. >> WITH THE
SOY, W TERMINATE ITO
>> WITH THE SOY, W TERMINATE
ITO THE TINY PIECEs.
THE TINY PIECEs. >> WHILE
THE INDUSTRY IS DIVIDED
>> WHILE THE INDUSTRY IS DIVIDED
ON WHO PROTEIN SOURCE IS BEST,
IT IS AGREED THAT AN ALTERNATIVE
IT IS AGREED THAT AN
ALTERNATIVE WILL BE NEEDED.
WILL BE NEEDED. THE
START-UP BEYOND MEAT HAS
THE START-UP BEYOND MEAT HAS
PLANT-PACED CHICKEN AND BEEF
THAT'S GETTING PARTICULAR
ATTENTION FROM INVESTORS, LIKE
BILL GATES, AND UNLIKE MOST
VEGAN PRODUCT THEY SAY LOOK A
LOT LIKE TRADITIONAL MEAT.
WHAT SHOULD I TRY FIRST?
WHAT SHOULD I TRY FIRST? ALL
OF THE MEAT ON THIS TABLE IS
ALL OF THE MEAT ON THIS
TABLE IS MEAT FROM PEAS.
MEAT FROM PEAS. IT'S A
LITTLE CHEWIER THAN YOUR
IT'S A LITTLE CHEWIER THAN YOUR
TRADITIONAL CHICKEN BUT VERY
TRADITIONAL CHICKEN
BUT VERY CLOSE.
CLOSE. JOAD SEA
STANFORD PROFESSOR OF
JOAD SEA STANFORD PROFESSOR OF
STRUCSTRUCTURAL BIOLOGY AND SAYS
BUILDING MEAT OUT OF A PLANT
PROTEIN IS A CHALLENGE, THOUGH
CHICKEN IS EASIER THAN BEEF.
CHICKEN IS EASIER THAN BEEF. >>
CHICKEN IS EASIER TO DO THAN
>> CHICKEN IS EASIER TO DO THAN
BEEF BECAUSE THE TEXT OF A
CHICKEN BREAST IS PRETTY
UNIFORM, THE COLOR IS UNIFORM.
>> IT'S REALLY A PROPER
SCIENTIFIC LABORATORY FOCUSED ON
DECONSTRUCTING AND REBUILDING
THE EXPERIENCE OF MEAT.
THE EXPERIENCE OF MEAT. >>
WHAT YOUE L'ROOKING AT RIGHT
>> WHAT YOUE L'ROOKING AT RIGHT
HERE IS A GAS CHROMATOGRAPH, AND
IT GIVES US A MEASUREMENT OF
IT GIVES US A MEASUREMENT
OF WHAT MEAT TASTES LIKE.
WHAT MEAT TASTES LIKE.
ESSENTIALLY IT'S A
FINGERPRINTING OF WHAT FLAVOR
AND AROMA EXISTS IN MEAT
AND AROMA EXISTS
IN MEAT ALREADY.
ALREADY. >> ETHAN
BROWN IS THE FOUNDER
>> ETHAN BROWN IS THE FOUNDER
AND C.E.O. OF BEYOND MEAT.
AND C.E.O. OF BEYOND MEAT. >>
WE'RE TAKING PROTEIN FROM A
>> WE'RE TAKING PROTEIN FROM A
PEA, AND USING HEATING, COOLING
AND PRESSURE TO ALIGN IT IN THE
AND PRESSURE TO ALIGN
IT IN THE FORM OF MEAT.
FORM OF MEAT. THAT'S IT.
THAT'S IT. WE HAVE TO
BE ABLE TO FIGURE OUT
WE HAVE TO BE ABLE TO FIGURE OUT
A WAY TO DESCRIBE THAT CONSUMERS
SO THEY UNDERSTAND THEY'RE
HAVING PERKS A PROTEIN IN THE
HAVING PERKS A PROTEIN
IN THE FORM OF MEAT.
FORM OF MEAT. >> IT SOUNDS
LIKE PROCESSED FOOD
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE PROCESSED FOOD
UPON PIDON'T EAT PROCESSED FOOD.
NO MEAT AT ALL IS THE AMERICAN
NO MEAT AT ALL IS THE
AMERICAN FUTURE.
FUTURE. >> IT IS MADE
UP OF AMINO ACIDS,
>> IT IS MADE UP OF AMINO ACIDS,
LIPIDS, CARBOHYDRATES, AND
LIPIDS, CARBOHYDRATES,
AND WATER.
WATER. THEY'RE PRESENT IN PLANT.
THEY'RE PRESENT IN PLANT. WHAT
WE'RE COULD GO IS BUILDING
WHAT WE'RE COULD
GO IS BUILDING ACE
ACE THE PLANT SO
THE COMPOSITIONS
THE PLANT SO THE COMPOSITIONS
ARE BASICALLY, THE SAME.
ARE BASICALLY, THE SAME. IN
THAT CASE WE ARE DELIVERING
IN THAT CASE WE ARE
DELIVERING MEAT.
MEAT. >> MEAT THAT THE AMERICAN
>> MEAT THAT THE AMERICAN
CONSUMER NEEDS TO BE CONVINCED
MIGHT BE AS GOOD AS THE BEEF OR
MIGHT BE AS GOOD AS THE BEEF
OR PORK THEY'RE ACCUSTOMED TO
PORK THEY'RE
ACCUSTOMED TO EATING.
EATING. SO YOU STUDY A SORT OF
SO YOU STUDY A SORT OF
SOCIOLOGICAL ASPECT OF PEOPLE'S
REACTIONS TO THESE FOODS?
REACTIONS TO THESE FOODS? >>
SO IT'S THE WHOLE PERFORMANCE
>> SO IT'S THE WHOLE
PERFORMANCE AROUND THE FOOD.
AROUND THE FOOD. SO IT'S
THE WORDS THAT ARE BEING
SO IT'S THE WORDS THAT ARE BEING
USED, THE PACKAGE, IT'S WHERE
IT'S LOCATED WITHIN THE
IT'S LOCATED WITHIN
THE SUPERMARKET.
SUPERMARKET. >>
ALTHOUGH BEYOND MEAT IS
>> ALTHOUGH BEYOND MEAT IS
AVAILABLE NATIONALLY AT WHOLE
FOODS, WALMART, AND OTHER SELECT
RETAILERS AT PRICES COMPARABLE
TO ANIMAL MEATS, PRODUCT
PLACEMENT DOES INFLUENCE SALES.
>> BECAUSE OF MY HEIGHT THEY PUT
>> BECAUSE OF MY HEIGHT
THEY PUT IT UP HERE.
IT UP HERE. HERE ARE
SOME OF THE PACKAGES.
HERE ARE SOME OF THE
PACKAGES. >> HERE WITH TOFU.
>> HERE WITH TOFU. >> RIGHT,
SO THE WHOLE CHALLENGE
>> RIGHT, SO THE WHOLE CHALLENGE
IS HOW DO WE MAKE THE DECISION
PROCESS SEAMLESS FOR THE
CONSUMER SO THEY'RE DOING
SOMETHING EXACTLY WHAT THEY'RE
DOING WITH ANIMAL PROTEIN AND
THE PRODUCTS BEHAVE EXACTLY LIKE
THEY DO WITH ANIMAL PROTEIN.
THEY DO WITH ANIMAL PROTEIN. I
DO BELIEVE IN 10 YEARS OR SO
I DO BELIEVE IN 10 YEARS OR SO
YOU'LL BE ABLE TO COME IN HERE
AND THERE WILL BE MEATS IN HERE
MADE FROM DIFFERENT PLANT.
THERE WILL BE CAMOLINNA, ANY
MANNER OF PLANT FEED STOCK AND
THE CONSUMERS CAN CHOOSE WHICH
TYPE OF BEEF THEY WANT.
TYPE OF BEEF THEY WANT. THE
DAYS OF THIS JUST BEING
THE DAYS OF THIS JUST BEING
ANIMAL PROTEIN I THINK ARE
RAPIDLY CONGRESS TO A CLOSE.
>> MAYBE NOT RAPIDLY, BUT ALL
THE FACT ROARS IN PLACE THAT
COULD LEAD TO A SHIFT IN OUR
COLLECTIVE THINKING ABOUT MEAT.
BEYOND MEAT IS CURRENTLY
AVAILABLE IN 10,000 LOCATIONS
WITH MAJOR EXPANSION SLATED FOR
WITH MAJOR EXPANSION
SLATED FOR THE NEW YEAR.
THE NEW YEAR. MAYBE WHEN
PLANT-BASED MEAT ARE
MAYBE WHEN PLANT-BASED MEAT ARE
AT OUR FINTERTIPS WE'LL DO THE
AMERICAN THING-- EAT THEM.
FOR PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M JAMES
HAMBLIN IN EL SEGUNDO,
HAMBLIN IN EL
SEGUNDO, CALIFOIA.RN
CALIFOIA.RN >>
Sreenivasan: YOU CAN FIND
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN FIND
MORE REPORTS BY DR. HAMBLIN
AT theatlantic.com.
>> Sreenivasan: THEY WERE KNOWN
COLLECTIVELY AS "THE GEORGIA
MAFIA:" WASHINGTON OUTSIDERS WHO
PLAYED KEY ROLES IN THE JIMMY
CARTER PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS,
AND IN THE WHITE HOUSE.
AND IN THE WHITE HOUSE. AMONG
THEM, HAMILTON JORDAN, WHO
AMONG THEM, HAMILTON JORDAN, WHO
WAS THE PRESIDENT'S CHIEF OF
WAS THE PRESIDENT'S CHIEF
OF STAFF AND TOP CONFIDANT.
STAFF AND TOP CONFIDANT.
HE DIED OF CANCER IN 2008.
HE DIED OF CANCER IN 2008. HE
LEFT BEHIND A MOSTLY FINISHED
HE LEFT BEHIND A MOSTLY
FINISHED MEMOIR.
MEMOIR. HIS DAUGHTER
KATHLEEN HAS EDITED
HIS DAUGHTER KATHLEEN HAS EDITED
AND COMPLETED THE BOOK, "A BOY
FROM GEORGIA: COMING OF AGE IN
FROM GEORGIA: COMING OF AGE
IN THE SEGREGATED SOUTH."
THE SEGREGATED SOUTH." SHE
TALKED TO JUDY RECENTLY.
SHE TALKED TO JUDY RECENTLY. >>
Woodruff: SO LET ME-- I HAVE
>> Woodruff: SO LET ME-- I HAVE
TO ASK YOU FIRST, IT LOOKS LIKE
TO ASK YOU FIRST, IT LOOKS
LIKE KATHLEEN JORDEN, BUT IT'S
KATHLEEN JORDEN, BUT IT'S
"JERDEN;" WHERE DID THAT COME
"JERDEN;" WHERE DID
THAT COME FROM?
FROM? >> MY DAD
ALWAYS SAID IT'S THE
>> MY DAD ALWAYS SAID IT'S THE
SOUTHERN PRONUNCIATION OF THE
SOUTHERN PRONUNCIATION
OF THE SURNAME.
SURNAME. IF YOU HEAR IT IN OLD
IF YOU HEAR IT IN OLD
SPIRITUALS, YOU'LL HEAR IT
PRONOUNCED THE "RIVER JERDAN."
SO I THINK IT'S A LONG-STANDING
TRADITION OF THE SOUTH.
TRADITION OF THE SOUTH. AT
LEAST THAT'S WHAT WE WERE
AT LEAST THAT'S WHAT WE WERE
TOLD AND WE'VE TAKEN THAT
TOLD AND WE'VE TAKEN
THAT FORWARD WITH US.
FORWARD WITH US. >> Woodruff:
NOW I HAVE TO SAY,
>> Woodruff: NOW I HAVE TO SAY,
I KNEW YOUR FATHER, HAMILTON
JORDAN, BECAUSE HE WORKED FOR
JORDAN, BECAUSE HE
WORKED FOR JIMMY CARTER.
JIMMY CARTER. I COVERED
CARTER AS GOVERNOR OF
I COVERED CARTER AS GOVERNOR OF
GEORGIA, THEN AS PRESIDENT OF
GEORGIA, THEN AS PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE UNITED STATES. YOUR
FATHER WAS A STRATEGIST, HE
YOUR FATHER WAS A STRATEGIST,
HE WAS CHIEF OF STAFF, BUT THIS
WAS CHIEF OF STAFF, BUT THIS
BOOK REALLY IS ABOUT HIS GROWING
UP IN SOUTH GEORGIA, GROWING UP
IN THE SEGREGATIONIST SOUTH,
IN THE SEGREGATIONIST
SOUTH, ISN'T IT?
ISN'T IT? >> IT IS.
>> IT IS. A LOT
OF-- WHEN POLITICAL
A LOT OF-- WHEN POLITICAL
JUNKIES HEAR THAT MY DAD HAS A
NEW BOOK OUT, THEY'RE EXCITED
BECAUSE THEY THINK IT MAY BE
ABOUT THE CARTER YEARS AND WHAT
I SAY TO THOSE PEOPLE IS THAT IT
MAY NOT NECESSARILY BE ABOUT HIS
POLITICAL YEARS, BUT IT'S ABOUT
HIS EARLY INDOCTRINATION INTO
POLITICS, AND KIND OF LEARNING
ABOUT POLITICS FROM THE PEOPLE
AROUND HIM AND ABOUT THE
FORMATION OF HIS POLITICAL
FORMATION OF HIS
POLITICAL SKILLS.
SKILLS. >> Woodruff:
HE GREW UP, AS WE
>> Woodruff: HE GREW UP, AS WE
JUST SAID, IN THE SEGREGATIONIST
SOUTH, FROM A FAMILY STEEPED IN
THE CONFEDERACY, HAD ANCESTORS
WHO FOUGHT FOR THE CONFEDERACY.
THAT REALLY WAS WHAT HE REALLY
WAS SURROUNDED BY AS HE WAS
GROWING UP, AND YET HE WAS
GROWING UP, AND YET HE
WAS RAISING QUESTIONS.
RAISING QUESTIONS. >> THERE
ARE SOME MOMENTS IN THE
>> THERE ARE SOME MOMENTS IN THE
BOOK WHERE HE REALLY REALIZES
THAT HE HAS TO MAKE A DECISION.
OBVIOUSLY SEGREGATION WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS PASSED DOWN
FROM GENERATION TO GENERATION
AND I THINK THIS BOOK IS ABOUT
HIM REALIZING THAT THIS CHOICE
HIM REALIZING THAT THIS
CHOICE IS SITTING IN MY LAP.
IS SITTING IN MY LAP. "I
HAVE THE CHOICE TO DECIDE
"I HAVE THE CHOICE TO DECIDE
WHETHER OR NOT I AM GOING TO
QUESTION THIS, OR IF I'M GOING
TO JUST GO ALONG WITH WHAT
EVERYONE ELSE BELIEVES," AND I
THINK IT'S ABOUT HIS JOURNEY TO
DECIDING TO FOLLOW THE MORAL
DECIDING TO FOLLOW
THE MORAL TRUTH.
TRUTH. >> Woodruff:
AND THERE WERE A
>> Woodruff: AND THERE WERE
A COUPLE OF POINTS WHERE HE
COUPLE OF POINTS WHERE HE
THOUGHT HE WAS A MORAL FAILURE.
WHERE HE DIDN'T SPEAK UP WHEN HE
WHERE HE DIDN'T SPEAK UP WHEN
HE SAW SOMETHING HAPPENING.
SAW SOMETHING HAPPENING.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. HE WAS IN
DOWNTOWN ALBANY, WHERE
HE WAS IN DOWNTOWN ALBANY, WHERE
HE WAS BORN, WHICH IS A VERY
SMALL TOWN, BUT HE WRITES ABOUT
WATCHING DR. KING MARCH AND HE
WAS PROTESTING THE SEGREGATION
OF THE PUBLIC FACILITIES IN
ALBANY, GEORGIA AND HE SEES HIS
MAID THERE, HATTIE, WITH HIS
DAD-- HE'S STANDING WITH HIS
DAD, AND THEY SEE HATTIE IN THIS
PROTEST AND HIS DAD PULLS HIM
AWAY AND SAYS WE NEED TO LEAVE
AWAY AND SAYS WE NEED
TO LEAVE RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT NOW. THOSE
PEOPLE ARE OUTSIDE
THOSE PEOPLE ARE OUTSIDE
AGITATORS AND THEY'VE GOTTEN ALL
RILED UP AND THEY SHOULD BE
RILED UP AND THEY SHOULD
BE ASHAMED OF THEMSELVES.
ASHAMED OF THEMSELVES. AND
MY DAD SAID, WELL WHAT ABOUT
AND MY DAD SAID, WELL
WHAT ABOUT HATTIE?
HATTIE? IT WAS THIS
PERSON HE HAD A REAL
IT WAS THIS PERSON HE HAD A REAL
PERSONAL CONNECTION WITH, AND
PERSONAL CONNECTION WITH,
AND SHE WAS PROTESTING.
SHE WAS PROTESTING. AND HE'D
SEEN THIS OTHER PART OF
AND HE'D SEEN THIS OTHER
PART OF HER LIFE.
HER LIFE. HE SAYS IN
THE BOOK LIKE YOU
HE SAYS IN THE BOOK LIKE YOU
SAID, HE MARKS THAT AS A MOMENT
OF MORAL FAILURE IN HIS LIFE,
THAT HE DIDN'T STAND UP FOR WHAT
HE REALIZED WAS RIGHT IN THAT
HE REALIZED WAS RIGHT
IN THAT MOMENT.
MOMENT. >> Woodruff:
THERE ARE ALSO A
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE ALSO A
LOT OF FUNNY MOMENTS IN THE
LOT OF FUNNY MOMENTS
IN THE BOOK.
BOOK. WHEN HE WAS
NINE YEARS OLD, HE
WHEN HE WAS NINE YEARS OLD,
HE WENT WITH HIS FAMILY TO
WENT WITH HIS FAMILY TO
WASHINGTON, WENT TO THE
SMITHSONIAN, FOUND HIS-- HIS
FAMILY WERE THE McWHORTERS, AND
HE FOUND A McWHORTER WHO HAD WON
THE CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR
FOR FIGHTING IN THE CIVIL WAR.
WHEN HE GOT BACK TO GEORGIA HE
TOLD HIS GRANDFATHER ALL ABOUT
IT, BUT THEN HE SAID, BY THE
WAY, HE FOUGHT FOR THE UNION.
HE SAID HIS GRANDFATHER GOT UP
HE SAID HIS GRANDFATHER
GOT UP AND WALKED OUT.
AND WALKED OUT. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. THERE'S A
LOT OF HUMOR IN THAT
THERE'S A LOT OF HUMOR IN THAT
BUT THERE'S ALSO AN UNDERCURRENT
THERE BECAUSE HIS GRANDFATHER
WAS SO PROUD OF BEING FROM THE
SOUTH AND WAS SO PROUD OF THE
CONFEDERACY, AND COULDN'T GET
BEHIND THE IDEA THAT HIS FAMILY
WAS FIGHTING AGAINST THE
WAS FIGHTING AGAINST
THE CONFEDERACY.
CONFEDERACY. >> Woodruff:
WHY DO YOU THINK
>> Woodruff: WHY DO YOU THINK
YOUR FATHER WAS WRITING THIS
YOUR FATHER WAS
WRITING THIS BOOK?
BOOK? I MEAN YOU
WATCHED MUCH OF THE
I MEAN YOU WATCHED MUCH OF THE
TIME WHEN HE WAS WORKING ON IT.
TIME WHEN HE WAS WORKING
ON IT. >> DEFINITELY.
>> DEFINITELY. >>
Woodruff: BEFORE HE DIED.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE
HE DIED. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. HE HAD BEEN
WORKING ON THIS BOOK
HE HAD BEEN WORKING ON THIS BOOK
FOR, I WOULD SAY, ALL OF HIS
FOR, I WOULD SAY,
ALL OF HIS LIFE.
LIFE. IT TOOK HIS
WHOLE LIFE TO KIND
IT TOOK HIS WHOLE LIFE TO KIND
OF FORMULATE THE IDEAS THAT HE
OF FORMULATE THE IDEAS THAT
HE EXPRESSES IN THIS BOOK.
EXPRESSES IN THIS BOOK. AND I
THINK HE WAS WORKING ON IT
AND I THINK HE WAS WORKING ON IT
PARTIALLY BECAUSE IT'S A LARGE
PART OF-- IT'S ABOUT WHO HE IS
AND HOW HE BECAME THE PERSON
THAT HE IS, AND I THINK IT'S
ALSO AN ADMISSION OF GUILT, AND
A STORY OF HOW HE TURNED HIMSELF
A STORY OF HOW HE
TURNED HIMSELF AROUND.
AROUND. HE WAS WORKING
ON IT IN ORDER
HE WAS WORKING ON IT IN ORDER
TO, NOT NECESSARILY TO ABSOLVE
HIMSELF, BUT TO TAKE AGENCY AND
OWNERSHIP OF A TIME IN HIS LIFE
WHEN HE BELIEVED THINGS THAT HE
NO LONGER BELIEVED AS A FULLY
NO LONGER BELIEVED AS
A FULLY FORMED ADULT.
FORMED ADULT. >> Woodruff:
YOU ARE MAKING YOUR
>> Woodruff: YOU ARE MAKING
YOUR WAY NOW IN HOLLYWOOD.
WAY NOW IN HOLLYWOOD. YOU'RE
A WRITER, YOU WORK ON
YOU'RE A WRITER, YOU
WORK ON REALITY SHOWS.
REALITY SHOWS. WHY WAS
IT IMPORTANT TO YOU?
WHY WAS IT IMPORTANT TO YOU?
>> IT WAS IMPORTANT TO ME
BECAUSE I HAVE STRUGGLED, FOR
MOST OF MY LIFE, WITH THE IDEA
OF BEING FROM THE SOUTH AND THE
IDEA OF SOUTHERN IDENTITY.
IDEA OF SOUTHERN IDENTITY. WHEN
I WAS YOUNGER-- AND I WRITE
WHEN I WAS YOUNGER-- AND I WRITE
ABOUT THIS A LITTLE BIT IN THE
INTRODUCTION THAT WHEN I WAS
YOUNGER I USED TO TELL MY CHURCH
BASKETBALL TEAM THAT I WAS FROM
NEW YORK, BECAUSE I DIDN'T WANT
TO BE ASSOCIATED WITH A PLACE IN
THE COUNTRY THAT I THOUGHT WAS A
PLACE THAT WAS STEEPED IN RACISM
AND VIOLENT EVANGELICAL IDEALS
AND THINGS, THAT IN MY MIND FELT
AND THINGS, THAT IN MY
MIND FELT VERY NEGATIVE.
VERY NEGATIVE. AND IT
TOOK ME STEPPING AWAY AND
AND IT TOOK ME STEPPING AWAY AND
GOING TO COLLEGE IN ANOTHER
STATE AND THEN LIVING IN NEW
YORK AND LOS ANGELES, TO
UNDERSTAND THAT THE SOUTH IS
SUCH AN IMPORTANT PART OF WHO I
AM, AND NOW IT IS SOMETHING THAT
I AM VERY PROUD OF AND TO NOT BE
I AM VERY PROUD OF AND TO NOT
BE PROUD OF IT IS TO NOT TAKE
PROUD OF IT IS TO NOT
TAKE OWNERSHIP OF IT.
OWNERSHIP OF IT. THAT
THERE ARE THINGS THAT ARE
THAT THERE ARE THINGS THAT ARE
BAD ABOUT THE SOUTH, BUT THERE
ARE THINGS THAT ARE BAD ABOUT
EVERY PLACE IN THE COUNTRY.
EVERY PLACE IN THE COUNTRY. SO
FOR ME IT WAS, I DID THIS TO
SO FOR ME IT WAS, I DID THIS
TO HONOR MY DAD AND HIS MEMORY
HONOR MY DAD AND HIS MEMORY
BECAUSE THESE STORIES NEEDED TO
GET INTO PEOPLE'S HANDS, AND
ALSO I WANTED TO HAVE A GREATER
SENSE OF OWNERSHIP OF WHO I AM
SENSE OF OWNERSHIP OF WHO
I AM AS A SOUTHERN WOMAN.
AS A SOUTHERN WOMAN. >>
Woodruff: WELL IT'S A
>> Woodruff: WELL IT'S A
WONDERFUL BOOK, AND A WONDERFUL
SET OF STORIES, PUT TOGETHER BY
THE DAUGHTER OF A MAN WHO WAS
VERY INVOLVED IN AMERICAN
POLITICS DOING A LOT OF
POLITICS DOING A
LOT OF REFLECTING.
REFLECTING. KATHLEEN
JORDAN, THANK YOU VERY
KATHLEEN JORDAN, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH FOR TALKING WITH US.
MUCH FOR TALKING WITH
US. >> JUDY, THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND FINALLY
TONIGHT, OUR NEWSHOUR "SHARES:"
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE,
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
THAT MIGHT BE OF
INTEREST TO YOU, TOO.
YOU, TOO. THE WHITE
HOUSE HAS BEEN
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS BEEN
CELEBRATING THANKSGIVING SINCE
1789, WHEN PRESIDENT GEORGE
WASHINGTON PROCLAIMED THE FIRST
"PUBLIC DAY OF THANKSGIVING."
THAT MEANS 44 PRESIDENTS HAVE
EATEN THEIR WAY THROUGH TURKEY
DAY, AND WITH PLENTY OF STORIES
DAY, AND WITH PLENTY OF
STORIES ON THE MENU.
ON THE MENU. IN 1897,
WILLIAM MCKINLEY'S
IN 1897, WILLIAM MCKINLEY'S
TABLE SAW MINCE MEAT, IDA
POTATES-- A GIFT FROM A FRIEND--
AND THE KICKER: A 26-POUND
TURKEY STUFFED WITH OYSTERS.
TURKEY STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. THE
BIRD CAUSED A DINNER DILEMMA
THE BIRD CAUSED A DINNER DILEMMA
FOR HARRY TRUMAN IN 1947.
AFTER WORLD WAR TWO, HE
ENCOURAGED AMERICANS TO MAKE A
"POULTRY-FREE THURSDAY" PLEDGE,
SO WITH THANKSGIVING FALLING ON
SO WITH THANKSGIVING FALLING
ON A THURSDAY, TOO--
A THURSDAY, TOO-- THE SOLUTION?
THE SOLUTION? TRUMAN
MOVED HIS THANKSGIVING
TRUMAN MOVED HIS THANKSGIVING
FEAST TO WEDNESDAY, COMPLETE
WITH ALL THE FIXINS': GIBLET
GRAVY, CANDIED SWEET POTATOES,
AND, YES, ROAST STUFFED TURKEY.
AND IN 1977, THE PROPOSED MENU
FOR JIMMY CARTER'S THANKSGIVING
CALLED FOR "GREEN PEAS WITH
CALLED FOR "GREEN
PEAS WITH MUSHROOMS."
MUSHROOMS." BUT-- CHECK
IT OUT-- THAT ITEM
BUT-- CHECK IT OUT-- THAT ITEM
WAS CROSSED OFF, AND RETURNED
WITH A HAND-WRITTEN NOTE FROM A
WITH A HAND-WRITTEN
NOTE FROM A STAFFER.
STAFFER. "JIMMY DOESN'T
ESPECIALLY LIKE
"JIMMY DOESN'T ESPECIALLY
LIKE GREEN PEAS," IT READ.
GREEN PEAS," IT READ. THE
MEAL INCLUDED GREEN BEANS,
THE MEAL INCLUDED
GREEN BEANS, INSTEAD.
INSTEAD. THIS YEAR, THE OBAMAS'
THIS YEAR, THE OBAMAS'
THANKSGIVING MENU INCLUDES
THYME-ROASTED TURKEY;
HONEY-BAKED HAM; CORNBREAD
STUFFING WITH CHORIZO; MAC AND
CHEESE; TWO KINDS OF POTATOES,
AND SIX DIFFERENT TYPES OF PIE.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE: NO
FAMILY GATHERING IS FREE FROM
THE OCCASIONAL BICKERING, AND IN
AN ELECTION YEAR, THAT MEANS A
HEATED POLITICAL DEBATE OR TWO.
WELL IT'S A HOLIDAY TRADITION
AT THE NEWSHOUR TO LOOK TO OUR
VERY OWN MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS, WHO GIVE THEIR BEST
ADVICE ON KEEPING DISCUSSIONS
CIVIL AT THE DINNER TABLE.
WE'VE POSTED THEIR TRIED AND
TRUE GUIDE ON OUR HOME PAGE,
www.pbs.org/newshour.
www.pbs.org/newshour. TONIGHT
ON CHARLIE ROSE: KARL
TONIGHT ON CHARLIE ROSE: KARL
ROVE ON WHY HE THINKS THE
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL RACE MAY
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL RACE
MAY NOT BE DECIDED BEFORE NEXT
NOT BE DECIDED BEFORE
NEXT YEAR'S CONVENTION.
YEAR'S CONVENTION. AND
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN. JOIN
US ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
JOIN US ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, WITH
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.